L14790 
 
 
 Presidency of the Republic, Civil House, Special Secretariat for Legal Affairs 
 
 
 LAW No. 14,790, OF DECEMBER 29, 2023 
 Veto message (Promulgation of vetoed parts) 
 This law addresses the lottery modality known as fixed-odds betting; amends Laws No. 5,768 of December 20, 1971, and No. 13,756 of December 12, 2018, and Provisional Measure No. 2,158-35 of August 24, 2001; revokes provisions of Decree-Law No. 204 of February 27, 1967; and provides other measures. 
 
 The President of the Republic hereby announces that the National Congress decrees and I sanction the following Law: 
 CHAPTER I 
 PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS 
 Article 1. This Law regulates the lottery modality known as fixed-odds betting and amends: 
 I - Law No. 5,768, of December 20, 1971 , to consolidate and establish new rules on the free distribution of prizes for advertising purposes and on the distribution of prizes carried out by civil society organizations, with the aim of raising additional resources for their maintenance or operating expenses; 
 II - Law No. 13,756, of December 12, 2018 , to establish guidelines and rules for the operation of fixed-odds betting lotteries; and 
 III - Provisional Measure No. 2,158-35, of August 24, 2001 , to provide for the authorization fee relating to the activities covered by Law No. 5,768, of December 20, 1971. 
 Sole paragraph. The provisions of this Law do not apply to lotteries, which will remain subject to special legislation. 
 Article 2. For the purposes of this Law, the following definitions apply: 
 I - bet: an act by which a certain amount of money is placed at risk in the expectation of obtaining a prize; 
 II - Fixed odds: a factor that multiplies the wagered amount, defining the sum to be received by the bettor in case of a prize, for each unit of national currency wagered; 
 III - gambler: natural person who places a bet; 
 IV - Electronic channel: a platform, which may be a website, internet application, or both, owned or managed by the betting operator, that enables betting to be carried out exclusively through virtual means; 
 V - virtual bet: a bet placed directly by the bettor through an electronic channel, before or during the occurrence of the event that is the subject of the bet; 
 VI - physical bet: a bet placed in person by purchasing a printed ticket, before or during the event that is the subject of the bet; 
 VII - Real sporting event: an event, competition or act that includes sporting competitions, tournaments, games or events, individual or collective, excluding those that exclusively involve the participation of minors under 18 (eighteen) years of age, whose result is unknown at the time of the bet and that are promoted or organized: 
 a) in accordance with the rules established by the national sports administration organization, as provided for in Law No. 14,597 of June 14, 2023 (General Sports Law), or by its affiliated organizations; or 
 b) by sports administration organizations based outside the country; 
 VIII - online game : electronic channel that enables virtual betting on a game in which the outcome is determined by the result of a random future event, based on a random generator of numbers, symbols, figures or objects defined in the rules system; 
 IX - virtual online gaming event : an online gaming event, competition, or act where the outcome is unknown at the time the bet is placed; 
 X - betting operator: a legal entity that receives authorization from the Ministry of Finance to operate fixed-odds betting; and 
 XI - Internet applications: the set of functionalities that can be accessed through a terminal connected to the internet. 
 Article 3. Fixed-odds betting as defined in this Law may have the following object: 
 I - real sporting events; or 
 II - Virtual online gaming events . 
 Sole paragraph. The sporting events involving youth categories or events involving exclusively underage athletes in any sporting modality may not be the subject of the bets referred to in the heading of this article. 
 CHAPTER II 
 OF THE EXPLOITATION REGIME 
 Article 4. Fixed-odds betting will be operated in a competitive environment, subject to prior authorization issued by the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with this Law and the regulations referred to in paragraph 3 of article 29 of Law No. 13,756, of December 12, 2018. 
 Article 5. The authorization to operate fixed-odds betting will be a discretionary administrative act, carried out according to the convenience and opportunity of the Ministry of Finance, in view of the national interest and the protection of the interests of the community, observing the following rules: 
 I - it will not be subject to a minimum or maximum number of operating agents; 
 II - it will be of a highly personal, non-negotiable, and non-transferable nature; and 
 III - it may, at the discretion of the Ministry of Finance, be granted with a term of 5 (five) years. 
 § 1 The authorization referred to in this article may be reviewed whenever there is a merger, spin-off, incorporation, transformation, as well as a transfer or modification of direct or indirect corporate control in the authorized legal entity. 
 § 2 The review of an authorization already granted will take place through a specific administrative process, which may be initiated ex officio, in accordance with the regulations, ensuring the interested party the right to a fair hearing and full defense. 
 CHAPTER III 
 FROM THE BETTING AGENT 
 Section I 
 Preliminary Provisions 
 Article 6. The operation of fixed-odds betting shall be exclusive to legal entities that, under the terms of this Law and the regulations of the Ministry of Finance, receive prior authorization to act as a betting operator. 
 Section II 
 General Requirements 
 Article 7. Only legal entities constituted under Brazilian law, with headquarters and administration in the national territory, that meet the requirements set forth in the regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance will be eligible for authorization to operate fixed-odds betting. 
 § 1 The regulations referred to in the heading of this article shall provide, at least, for: 
 I - Minimum value and method of payment for the share capital of the interested legal entity; 
 II - requirement of proven knowledge and experience in games, betting or lotteries from at least one of the members of the controlling group of the interested legal entity; 
 III - requirements for holding and exercising management or executive positions in the interested legal entities; 
 IV - Appointment of a director responsible for relations with the Ministry of Finance; 
 V - Structure and operation of the customer service department for bettors and the ombudsman component of the operating agent; 
 VI - Appointment of a director responsible for customer service and the ombudsman's office; 
 VII - technical and cybersecurity requirements to be observed by the information technology infrastructure and systems of the operating agents, with the requirement of nationally or internationally recognized certification; 
 VIII - integration or association of the operating agent with national or international sports integrity monitoring bodies; and 
 IX - requirement to have a Brazilian as a partner holding at least 20% (twenty percent) of the share capital of the legal entity. 
 § 2. The controlling partner or shareholder of a company operating a fixed-odds betting lottery, whether individually or as part of a control agreement, may not hold a direct or indirect stake in a publicly traded football company or professional sports organization, nor act as a manager of a Brazilian sports team. 
 Section III 
 Mandatory Corporate Policies 
 Article 8. Without prejudice to other requirements established in the regulations of the Ministry of Finance, the issuance and maintenance of authorization to operate fixed-odds betting will be conditional upon the interested legal entity demonstrating the adoption and implementation of policies, procedures, and internal controls for: 
 I - Customer service for bettors and ombudsman; 
 II - prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, especially regarding compliance with the duties set forth in Articles 10 and 11 of Law No. 9,613, of March 3, 1998 , and Law No. 13,260, of March 16, 2016; 
 III - responsible gaming and prevention of pathological gambling disorders; and 
 IV - integrity of bets and prevention of match-fixing and other fraud. 
 Sole paragraph. The regulations of the Ministry of Finance will establish the requirements and guidelines to be observed in the preparation and evaluation of the effectiveness of the policies addressed in this article. 
 CHAPTER IV 
 AUTHORIZATION PROCEDURE 
 Section I 
 Regarding the Time and Form of Application and its Processing 
 Article 9. Authorization to operate fixed-odds betting may be requested at any time by the interested legal entity, subject to the administrative procedure established in the regulations of the Ministry of Finance. (See ADI 7721) (See ADI 7723) 
 Sole paragraph. The Ministry of Finance will establish conditions and deadlines, not less than 6 (six) months, for the adaptation of legal entities that are in operation to the provisions of this Law and to the rules established by it in specific regulations. 
 Article 10. The administrative authorization procedure will be processed electronically, and during its analysis, access to the documents will be restricted to the interested party and their legal representatives. 
 § 1 Without prejudice to the provisions of the heading of this article, the list of submitted requests must be permanently available for public consultation on the website of the Ministry of Finance. 
 § 2 Except in cases of suspension or extension of deadlines due to insufficient, incomplete, or inconsistent documentation submitted by the interested legal entity, the analysis of requests will follow the chronological order of their filing. 
 Article 11. Authorization will only be issued if, after examining the documentation and evaluating the technical and financial capacity of the applicant legal entity and the reputation and knowledge of its controllers and administrators, the Ministry of Finance concludes that all legal and regulatory requirements have been met. 
 Section II 
 Regarding the Grant Consideration 
 Article 12. The issuance of authorization to operate fixed-odds betting will be conditional upon the payment of the fixed concession fee, as stipulated in the regulations of the Ministry of Finance. 
 Sole paragraph. The amount stipulated as a fixed grant will be limited to a maximum of R$ 30,000,000.00 (thirty million reais), considering the use of 3 (three) trademarks to be exploited by the legal entity in its electronic channels by authorization act. 
 Article 13. The amount of the consideration for the grant must be paid by the interested party within a non-extendable period of 30 (thirty) days, counted from the notification of the conclusion of the analysis of their request. 
 Sole paragraph. Failure to comply with the payment deadline stipulated in this article will result in the definitive archiving of the authorization procedure or the expiration of the authorization, as the case may be. 
 CHAPTER V 
 Regarding the offer and the placing of bets 
 Section I 
 Regarding the Method of Placing Bets 
 Article 14. The bets referred to in this Law may be offered by the operating agent in the following forms, individually or jointly: 
 I - virtual: through access to electronic channels; and 
 II - Physical: through the purchase of printed tickets. 
 § 1 The authorization act from the Ministry of Finance will specify whether the operating agent may operate in one or both modalities. 
 § 2. Fixed-odds bets that relate to online gaming events may only be offered in a virtual environment. 
 § 3 For the purposes of the provisions of § 2 of this article, the installation or provision of equipment or other devices in physical establishments intended for the sale of fixed-odds betting in a virtual environment is prohibited. 
 Article 15. Electronic channels and physical establishments, when authorized, used by the operating agent must display, in an easily visible location: 
 I - the company name, trade name, and registration number of the operating entity in the National Registry of Legal Entities (CNPJ); 
 II - the number and date of publication of the order authorizing it to operate fixed-odds betting; 
 III - the physical address of its headquarters; and 
 IV - the telephone number and email address for contacting the customer service and ombudsman department of the operating agent. 
 Section II 
 From Advertising and Propaganda 
 Article 16. The communication, advertising, and marketing activities of the fixed-odds betting lottery shall comply with the regulations of the Ministry of Finance, with self-regulation encouraged. 
 Sole paragraph. The regulation referred to in the heading of this article shall provide, at least, for: 
 I - Notices discouraging gambling and warnings about its harmful effects, which must be disseminated by the operating agents; 
 II - other informative actions to raise awareness among bettors and prevent pathological gambling disorder, as well as the prohibition of participation by minors under 18 (eighteen) years of age, especially through the development of a code of conduct and the dissemination of good practices; and 
 III - the targeting of advertising and promotional materials for betting to an adult audience, so as not to have children and adolescents as the target audience. 
 Article 17. Without prejudice to the provisions of the regulations of the Ministry of Finance, fixed-odds betting operators are prohibited from displaying advertising or commercial publicity that: 
 I - whose object or purpose is the dissemination of a trademark, symbol or name of legal or natural persons, or of the electronic or virtual channels used by them, that do not have the prior authorization required by this Law; 
 II - convey unfounded claims about the odds of winning or the potential winnings that bettors can expect; 
 III - present gambling as socially attractive or contain statements from well-known personalities or celebrities suggesting that gambling contributes to personal or social success; 
 IV - suggest or give rise to the understanding that betting may constitute an alternative to employment, a solution to financial problems, a source of additional income, or a form of financial investment; 
 V - contribute, in any way, to offending the cultural beliefs or traditions of the country, especially those contrary to the bet; 
 VI - promote marketing in schools and universities or promote sports betting aimed at minors. 
 § 1. It is forbidden to carry out any type of advertising or publicity in physical or virtual media without a warning indicating the age rating of the target audience, as provided for in Law No. 8,069, of July 13, 1990 (Statute of the Child and Adolescent). 
 § 2. Companies that disseminate advertising or publicity, including internet application providers, must remove irregular advertisements and campaigns after notification from the Ministry of Finance. 
 § 3. Internet service providers and internet application providers must block websites or remove applications that offer fixed-odds betting lotteries in violation of the provisions of this article, after notification from the Ministry of Finance. 
 § 4. Internet application providers that offer third-party applications must, within the scope and technical limits of their service, exclude applications whose purpose is the operation of fixed-odds betting lotteries in violation of the provisions of this article, after notification from the Ministry of Finance. 
 § 5 The notification provided for in §§ 2 and 4 of this article must contain, under penalty of nullity, a clear and specific identification of the content indicated as infringing, which allows the unequivocal location of the content when it comes to an internet application provider that hosts third-party content. 
 § 6. Internet connection and internet application providers must maintain an exclusive, permanent, and functional communication channel with the regulatory body, intended for receiving and prioritizing the processing of the determinations provided for in this article, in order to ensure prompt treatment and response times compatible with the urgency of the measures adopted. (Included by Provisional Measure No. 1,303 of 2025) Validity expired. 
 Article 18. The operating agent, as well as its subsidiaries and parent companies, is prohibited from acquiring, licensing, or financing the acquisition of rights to sporting events held in the country for the broadcasting, dissemination, transmission, retransmission, reproduction, distribution, availability, or any form of exhibition of their sounds and images, by any means or process. 
 Section III 
 On the Integrity of Betting 
 Art. 19. The operating agent shall adopt security and integrity mechanisms in conducting the fixed-odds betting lottery, observing the provisions of the regulations of the Ministry of Finance and Law No. 13,709, of August 14, 2018 (General Law on the Protection of Personal Data). 
 § 1. Sporting events subject to fixed-odds betting will include measures to mitigate match-fixing and corruption in real sporting events, by the operating agent, in accordance with the provisions of Article 177 of Law No. 14,597, of June 14, 2023 (General Sports Law), and the regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance. 
 § 2 The operating agent will be part of a national or international sports integrity monitoring body. 
 Article 20. Bets placed with the purpose of obtaining or securing advantages or gains through the manipulation of results and corruption in real sporting events are null and void. 
 Sole paragraph. Payments of prizes arising from bets under investigation may be suspended when there is reasonable doubt as to the manipulation of results or corruption in sporting events. 
 CHAPTER VI 
 PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS 
 Article 21. Payment arrangement providers, as well as financial and payment institutions, are prohibited from allowing or processing transactions that aim to place fixed-odds bets with legal entities that have not received authorization to operate fixed-odds bets as provided for in this Law. 
 Sole paragraph. The prohibition provided for in the heading of this article shall come into force within a period defined by the Ministry of Finance, which may not be less than 90 (ninety) days from the start of the accreditation of fixed-odds betting operators. 
 Sole paragraph. The prohibition mentioned in the heading includes: (Wording given by Provisional Measure No. 1,303, of 2025) Validity expired 
 I - the implementation of internal procedures for fulfilling this obligation; (Included by Provisional Measure No. 1,303, of 2025) Validity expired 
 II - the prohibition of maintaining relationships with legal entities that operate fixed-odds betting without authorization as provided for in this Law; and (Included by Provisional Measure No. 1,303 of 2025) Validity expired 
 III - the communication of data foreseen in regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance. (Included by Provisional Measure No. 1,303, of 2025) Validity expired 
 Sole paragraph. The prohibition provided for in the heading of this article shall come into force within a period defined by the Ministry of Finance, which may not be less than 90 (ninety) days from the start of the accreditation of fixed-odds betting operators. 
 Article 21-A. If the competent regulatory or supervisory authority finds that a fixed-odds betting lottery is being operated by an unauthorized natural or legal person, financial institutions, payment institutions, and payment arrangement providers shall, in accordance with the regulations: (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 I - proceed with the blocking of deposit accounts, payment accounts and other registration accounts held by irregular operators; and (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 II - to prevent the execution of new transactions that aim to enable, directly or indirectly, the irregular operation of fixed-odds betting lotteries. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 § 1 The blocking referred to in the heading of this article shall observe due administrative process, guaranteeing the right to a fair hearing and full defense to the interested party, and shall not prejudice the reimbursement of amounts owed to bettors. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 § 2. The Central Bank of Brazil and the Ministry of Finance, within their respective areas of responsibility, are responsible for regulating the operational procedures necessary to comply with the provisions of this article. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 § 3 The amounts held in accounts blocked in accordance with this article that are declared forfeited to the Union, including taxes, fines and other penalties applied as a result of the irregular operation of fixed-odds betting lotteries, shall be allocated to the National Public Security Fund (FNSP), pursuant to Law No. 13,756, of December 12, 2018. ( Included by Law No. 15,358, of 2026) 
 Article 22. The offering of transactional accounts or financial services of any kind that allow the bettor to: is exclusive to Brazilian institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil. 
 I - to make deposits and withdrawals from your betting account with the betting operator; or 
 II - to receive the prize money due to him/her. 
 Sole paragraph. The funds of bettors held in the transactional accounts referred to in this article: 
 I - They constitute separate assets, distinct from those of the betting operator; 
 II - They are not directly or indirectly liable for any obligation of the operator, nor can they be subject to attachment, seizure, search and seizure, or any other act of judicial constraint due to debts for which the betting operator is responsible; 
 III - do not form part of the assets of the betting operator for the purposes of bankruptcy, judicial or extrajudicial reorganization, intervention, or judicial or extrajudicial liquidation; and 
 IV - They cannot be given as collateral for debts incurred by the betting operator. 
 Article 23. The betting operator must adopt identification procedures that allow verification of the identity of bettors, requiring the use of facial recognition and identification technology. 
 § 1 The procedures referred to in the heading of this article shall include obtaining, verifying and validating the authenticity of the bettor's identification information, including by comparing this information with that available in public and private databases, if necessary. 
 § 2 The procedures referred to in the heading of this article must include confirmation of the bettor's identity through communication channels provided in the user's registration, such as email, short message service ( SMS ) or messaging applications. 
 § 3 The Ministry of Finance shall regulate the requirement for operators to develop effective systems and processes to monitor gambler activity in order to identify damages or potential damages associated with gambling, from the moment an account is opened, observing the following criteria: 
 I - Gambler's expenses; 
 II - spending patterns; 
 III - time spent playing; 
 IV - indicators of game behavior; 
 V - contact led by the bettor; 
 VI - Use of gambling management tools. 
 § 4 The Ministry of Finance shall regulate the requirement for operators to develop a user-activated usage time limitation feature, with at least the following options: 
 I - 24 (twenty-four) hours; 
 II - 1 (one) week; 
 III - 1 (one) month; or 
 IV - any other period that the bettor may reasonably request, up to a maximum of 6 (six) weeks. 
 Article 24. The betting operator, as well as the financial and payment institutions contracted by it for the opening or maintenance of transactional accounts, must maintain, in the form and within the time frame established by the regulations of the Ministry of Finance, a record of all operations carried out, including bets placed, prizes won, and withdrawals and deposits in transactional accounts. 
 Article 24-A. Payment institutions and financial institutions shall integrate, in accordance with current regulations, into interoperable systems for sharing information on evidence of electronic fraud, with the objective of: (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 I - to report evidence of individuals or legal entities operating as unauthorized betting operators; (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 II - to consult the shared information to prevent, detect or react to attempts to carry out transactions with illegal operators; (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 III - apply appropriate prevention and response measures, according to the degree of risk identified, including blocking, refusal or enhanced analysis. (Included by Law No. 15,358, of 2026) 
 § 1 The communication and processing of information must comply with the technical and legal requirements set forth in a joint act of the Central Bank of Brazil and the Securities and Exchange Commission. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 § 2 The Prizes and Betting Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance shall receive information on evidence of electronic fraud as referred to in the main clause and may maintain a public and updated reference database of unauthorized operators, for the purpose of feeding and cross-referencing with the fraud prevention systems used by institutions. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 § 3 The Central Bank of Brazil and the National Monetary Council shall, within a maximum period of 60 (sixty) days from the publication of this Law, issue or update the regulations necessary to ensure the full implementation of the provisions of this article. (Included by Law No. 15,358, of 2026) 
 Article 24-B. The Central Bank of Brazil will regulate, within the scope of the Pix payment system, specific mechanisms to prevent the misuse of the infrastructure for the movement of funds linked to unauthorized betting operators. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 § 1. The following measures, among others, may be adopted: (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 I - creation of a transaction modality exclusively for bets, linked to a positive registration of authorized operators; (Included by Law No. 15,358, of 2026) 
 II - Automated filters for the National Classification of Economic Activities (CNAE) and Pix keys with blocking of irregular transactions; (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 III - integration with centralized risk and self-exclusion directories; (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 IV - insertion of visual markings in transaction statements with betting operators. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 § 2. Institutions participating in Pix must implement mechanisms to detect suspicious patterns of use for unauthorized betting, based on criteria defined by the Central Bank of Brazil and the Secretariat of Prizes and Betting of the Ministry of Finance. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 Article 24-C. Payment institutions and financial institutions must adopt enhanced due diligence procedures to prevent payment transactions with unauthorized agents. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 Article 25. The betting operator shall, in the manner established by the regulations of the Ministry of Finance, implement the following procedures: 
 I - analysis of bets through monitoring and selection mechanisms, with the aim of characterizing them as suspected of money laundering and terrorist financing or not; 
 II - reporting to the Council for the Control of Financial Activities (Coaf) transactions that present a well-founded suspicion of money laundering and terrorist financing. 
 CHAPTER VII 
 FROM THE BETTORS 
 Section I 
 Those Banned from Betting 
 Article 26. Participation, directly or indirectly, including through an intermediary, as a bettor, is prohibited for: 
 I - under 18 (eighteen) years of age; 
 II - owner, administrator, director, person with significant influence, manager or employee of the operating agent; 
 III - public agent with duties directly related to the regulation, control and oversight of the activity within the federative entity in whose staff they exercise their powers; 
 IV - person who has or may have access to computerized fixed-odds betting lottery systems; 
 V - any person who has or may have any influence on the outcome of a real sporting event that is the subject of a fixed-odds betting lottery, including: 
 a) person who holds the position of sports manager, sports technician, coach, or member of a technical committee; 
 b) sports referee, assistant sports referee, or equivalent, sports manager, agent or representative of athletes and coaches, coach or member of a coaching staff; 
 (c) member of the administrative or supervisory body of an entity that manages or organizes a competition or sporting event; 
 d) athlete participating in competitions organized by entities that are part of the National Sports System; 
 VI - a person diagnosed with gambling addiction, as determined by a report from a qualified mental health professional; and 
 VII - other persons specified in the regulations of the Ministry of Finance. 
 § 1. Bets placed in violation of the provisions of this article are null and void. 
 § 2 The prohibitions set forth in items II, IV and V of the heading of this article extend to spouses, partners and relatives in the direct and collateral line, up to and including the second degree, of persons prevented from participating, directly or indirectly, as a bettor. 
 § 3 The provision in item III of the heading of this article does not exclude the observance by public agents of the duties and prohibitions provided for in laws and regulations, as set forth in Laws No. 8,429, of June 2, 1992 (Law on Administrative Impropriety), and No. 12,813, of May 16, 2013. 
 § 4 The impediments referred to in the heading of this article shall be prominently displayed by the betting operators in the physical or online channels for marketing the fixed-odds lottery, as well as in messages, publications, and advertising and promotional materials used to publicize the bets. 
 Section II 
 Basic Rights 
 Article 27. Bettors are guaranteed all consumer rights provided for in Law No. 8,078, of September 11, 1990 (Consumer Protection Code). 
 § 1 In addition to those provided for in Article 6 of Law No. 8,078, of September 11, 1990 (Consumer Protection Code), the following constitute basic rights of bettors: 
 I - adequate and clear information and guidance regarding the rules and methods of using betting venues, equipment, systems and electronic channels; 
 II - adequate and clear information and guidance regarding the conditions and requirements for correctly predicting lottery results and determining the prize, prohibiting the use of ambiguous, abbreviated, or generic writing during the process of placing a bet; 
 III - adequate and clear information and guidance regarding the risks of losing the value of bets and the disorders of pathological gambling; and 
 IV - the protection of personal data as provided for in Law No. 13.709, of August 14, 2018 (General Law on the Protection of Personal Data). 
 § 2 For the purposes of the provisions of item IV of § 1 of this article, the regulations of the Ministry of Finance will define limits on the requirement and processing of personal data and sensitive personal data, in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 13,709, of August 14, 2018 (General Law on the Protection of Personal Data). 
 Section III 
 From the Right to Guidance and Assistance 
 Article 28. The operating agent must provide a customer service for bettors, operated through a free electronic or telephone access channel, in order to receive and resolve questions and requests related to the operation of the fixed-odds betting lottery, in accordance with the regulations of the Ministry of Finance. 
 § 1 The service referred to in this article shall be provided in Portuguese by persons who are fluent in the vernacular. 
 § 2 In establishments where physical betting is offered, the operating agent must also provide the service referred to in this article in person. 
 Section IV 
 Prohibited Conduct in Offering Bets 
 Article 29. The operating agent is prohibited from: 
 I - to grant, in any form, advance payment, prepayment, bonus or prior advantage, even if merely for promotional, advertising or publicity purposes, for the purpose of placing a bet; 
 II - to enter into a partnership, agreement, contract, or any other form of arrangement or business arrangement to enable or facilitate access to credit or factoring operations by a bettor; and 
 III - to install or allow the installation in its physical establishment of any agency, office or representation of a legal or natural person that grants credit or carries out factoring operations to bettors. 
 Sole paragraph. With regard to items II and III of the heading of this article, lottery permit holders are excepted, in accordance with Law No. 12,869, of October 15, 2013. 
 CHAPTER VIII 
 OF THE AWARDS 
 Section I 
 Payment Method 
 Article 30. Prize payments must be made exclusively through transfers, credits, or remittances to bank or payment accounts held by the respective bettors and maintained by them in institutions headquartered and managed in Brazil that are authorized by the Central Bank of Brazil. 
 § 1. At the bettor's option, winnings may remain in a virtual wallet for use of their credits in new bets with the same operating agent. 
 § 2 The bank account or payment account information must be provided when the bettor registers with the betting operator or when placing the bet, whether physically or online . 
 Section II 
 On Taxation 
 Art. 31. Net prizes obtained from bets in fixed-odds betting lotteries will be taxed by the Personal Income Tax (IRPF) at a rate of 15% (fifteen percent). 
 § 1 (VETOED). 
 § 1 For the purposes of this article, net prize shall be considered the positive result obtained from fixed-odds bets placed each year, after deducting losses incurred from bets of the same nature. (Promulgation of vetoed parts) 
 § 2 (VETOED). 
 § 2 The tax referred to in the heading of this article shall apply to net prizes that exceed the value of the first bracket of the annual progressive income tax table. (Promulgation of vetoed parts) 
 § 3 (VETOED). 
 § 3 The tax referred to in the heading of this article shall be calculated annually and paid by the last business day of the month following the month of calculation. (Promulgation of vetoed parts) 
 § 4 The provisions of this article shall apply to fantasy sports . 
 Section III 
 On Prescription 
 Art. 32. The bettor loses the right to receive their prize or to request refunds if the payment due is not credited to their graphic account held with the operating agent and is not claimed by the bettor within 90 (ninety) days, counted from the date of publication of the result of the event that was the subject of the bet. 
 § 1 The value of unclaimed prizes will be allocated 50% (fifty percent) to the Student Financing Fund (Fies) and 50% (fifty percent) to the National Fund for Public Calamities, Protection and Civil Defense (Funcap), in accordance with the financial and budgetary planning of the federal Executive Branch. 
 § 2. Of the resources from FIES referred to in § 1 of this article, at least 10% (ten percent) shall be allocated to students from rural populations, native peoples, including indigenous peoples, and quilombola peoples. 
 CHAPTER IX 
 FROM THE INSPECTION 
 Article 33. The operating agent must use auditable systems, to which unrestricted, continuous, and real-time access must be provided to the Ministry of Finance whenever requested. 
 Article 34. The regulations of the Ministry of Finance will provide for the manner and procedure for the sending or making available, by the operating agents, of clarifications, technical, operational, economic-financial and accounting information, data, documents, certifications, certificates and reports that are considered necessary for the supervision of the activities carried out by betting operators. 
 Sole paragraph. For the purposes of the provisions of the heading of this article, especially with regard to bettors, the processing of personal data and sensitive personal data must comply with the provisions of Law No. 13.709, of August 14, 2018 (General Law on the Protection of Personal Data). 
 Article 35. The operating agent shall report to the Ministry of Finance and the Public Prosecutor's Office any evidence of manipulation of events or results that he or she identifies or that is reported to him or her. 
 Sole paragraph. The communication referred to in this article shall be made within 5 (five) working days, counted from the date on which the operating agent identifies or becomes aware of the indication of manipulation, in accordance with the provisions of the regulations. 
 Article 36. Once initiated, inspection procedures may continue for as long as necessary to clarify the facts, in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 9,873, of November 23, 1999. 
 Article 37. The operating agent must have an administrative structure capable of responding, quickly and effectively, to requests, inquiries, questions, or solicitations arising from: 
 I - from any body or entity that is part of the organizational structure of the Ministry of Finance; 
 II - public bodies that are part of the National Consumer Protection System, as referred to in Article 105 of Law No. 8,078, of September 11, 1990 (Consumer Protection Code); 
 III - of the Judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Defender's Office; 
 IV - from other Brazilian bodies, entities and authorities, for the exercise of their legal duties. 
 Sole paragraph. The operating entity must structure a specific area and channel to address the demands referred to in this article. 
 CHAPTER X 
 OF THE SANCTIONING REGIME 
 Section I 
 Preliminary Provisions 
 Article 38. Infractions will be investigated through an administrative sanctioning process that will adhere to the principles of legality, purpose, motivation, reasonableness, proportionality, morality, full defense, adversarial process, legal certainty, and efficiency, among others. 
 Section II 
 Regarding Infractions 
 Article 39. The following constitutes an administrative offense punishable under the terms of this Law or other legal and regulatory norms applicable to fixed-odds betting lotteries whose compliance is monitored by the Ministry of Finance, without prejudice to the application of other penalties provided for in the legislation: 
 I - To operate a fixed-odds betting lottery without prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance; 
 II - To carry out operations or activities that are prohibited, unauthorized, or inconsistent with the authorization granted; 
 III - to obstruct the inspection by the competent administrative body; 
 IV - Failure to provide the competent administrative body with documents, data or information whose submission is required by legal or regulatory standards; 
 V - providing the competent administrative body with incorrect documents, data or information, or documents that do not comply with the deadlines and conditions established in legal or regulatory standards; 
 VI - To disseminate advertising or commercial promotion for unauthorized fixed-odds betting lottery operators; Production of effects 
 VII - to fail to comply with legal and regulatory standards whose compliance falls under the responsibility of the competent administrative body to oversee; and 
 VII - to fail to comply with legal and regulatory norms whose compliance is the responsibility of the competent administrative body to oversee; (Wording given by Provisional Measure No. 1,303, of 2025 ) Validity expired 
 VII - to fail to comply with legal and regulatory standards whose compliance falls under the responsibility of the competent administrative body to oversee; and 
 VIII - To execute, encourage, permit, or in any way contribute to or participate in practices that undermine sporting integrity, the uncertainty of sporting results, equality among competitors, and the transparency of the rules applicable to the sporting event, as well as any other form of fraud or undue interference capable of affecting the fairness or soundness of conduct associated with the proper performance of the sporting activity. 
 VIII - to execute, encourage, permit or, in any way, contribute to or participate in practices that undermine sporting integrity, the uncertainty of sporting results, equality among competitors and the transparency of the rules applicable to the sporting event, and any other form of fraud or undue interference capable of affecting the fairness or soundness of conduct associated with the proper performance of the sporting activity; and (Wording given by Provisional Measure No. 1,303, of 2025) Validity expired 
 VIII - To execute, encourage, permit, or in any way contribute to or participate in practices that undermine sporting integrity, the uncertainty of sporting results, equality among competitors, and the transparency of the rules applicable to the sporting event, as well as any other form of fraud or undue interference capable of affecting the fairness or soundness of conduct associated with the proper performance of the sporting activity. 
 IX - Failure to comply with the provisions of Article 21 and its regulations. (Included by Provisional Measure No. 1,303 of 2025) Validity expired 
 IX - to fail to comply with the provisions of articles 21, 24-A, 24-B and 24-C and their respective regulations; (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 X - to maintain, renew or enter into a direct or indirect contractual, commercial or operational relationship with a natural or legal person that operates a fixed-odds betting lottery without valid authorization, after unequivocal knowledge of the irregularity, including through official notification, administrative decision or publication in official media; (Included by Law No. 15,358, of 2026) 
 XI - failure to implement or apply internal control, compliance , or anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing mechanisms designed to prevent the facilitation of transactions associated with an unauthorized fixed-odds betting lottery operator, when required due to the size, nature, or institutional function of the regulated agent; (Included by Law No. 15,358, of 2026) 
 XII - to disseminate, promote, boost, or monetize advertising content, sponsorships, campaigns, or other communication actions, including through digital platforms, social networks, content producers, influencers, or advertising or marketing companies, that are associated with an unauthorized fixed-odds betting lottery operator, provided there is unequivocal knowledge of the irregularity. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 Sole paragraph. It constitutes an obstruction to inspection to deny or hinder access to data and information systems and to fail to display or provide documents, papers and accounting books, including in electronic format, within the deadlines, in the forms and under the conditions established by the competent administrative body in the exercise of its inspection activity. 
 § 1. It constitutes an obstruction to inspection to deny or hinder access to data and information systems and to fail to display or provide documents, papers and accounting books, including in electronic format, within the deadlines, in the forms and under the conditions established by the competent administrative body in the exercise of its inspection activity. (Wording given by Law No. 15,358, of 2026) 
 § 2 The characterization of the unequivocal knowledge referred to in items X and XII of the heading of this article may occur through formal notification, prior administrative decision, official publication, or through elements that demonstrate the notoriety of the irregular condition of the promoted agent. (Included by Law No. 15,358, of 2026) 
 Article 40. The provisions of this Chapter also apply to natural or legal persons who: 
 I - engage, without proper authorization, in activities related to fixed-odds betting subject to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance; 
 II - act as administrators or members of the board of directors, the administrative council, or other bodies provided for in the bylaws of a legal entity subject to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, under the terms of this Law. 
 II - act as administrators or members of the board of directors, the administrative council, or other bodies provided for in the bylaws of a legal entity subject to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the provisions of this Law; and (Wording given by Provisional Measure No. 1,303, of 2025) Validity expired 
 II - act as administrators or members of the board of directors, the administrative council, or other bodies provided for in the bylaws of a legal entity subject to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, under the terms of this Law. 
 III - directly or indirectly carry out any form of advertising or publicity in physical or virtual media for an agent who, without due authorization, engages in activities related to fixed-odds betting. (Included by Provisional Measure No. 1,303 of 2025) Validity expired 
 III - directly or indirectly carry out any form of advertising or publicity in physical or virtual media for an agent who, without due authorization, engages in activities related to fixed-odds betting. (Included by Law No. 15,358 of 2026) 
 Section III 
 Penalties 
 Article 41. The following penalties, applied individually or cumulatively, shall apply to individuals and legal entities that violate the provisions of this Law: 
 I - warning; 
 II - in the case of a legal entity: a fine of 0.1% (one tenth of one percent) to 20% (twenty percent) on the proceeds of the collection after deducting the amounts referred to in items III , IV and V of the caput of article 30 of Law No. 13,756, of December 12, 2018 , relating to the last fiscal year prior to the commencement of the administrative sanctioning process, provided that the fine shall never be less than the benefit obtained, when it is possible to estimate it, nor greater than R$ 2,000,000,000.00 (two billion reais) per infraction; 
 III - in the case of other natural or legal persons under public or private law and any associations of entities or persons constituted in fact or in law, even temporarily, with or without legal personality, that do not carry out business activity, when it is not possible to use the criterion of the proceeds of the collection: a fine of R$ 50,000.00 (fifty thousand reais) to R$ 2,000,000,000.00 (two billion reais) per infraction; 
 IV - partial or total suspension of the exercise of activities, for a period of up to 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; 
 V - revocation of authorization, termination of permission or concession, cancellation of registration, disqualification or similar act of release; 
 VI - prohibition from obtaining ownership of a new authorization, grant, permit, accreditation, registration or similar act of release, for a maximum period of 10 (ten) years; 
 VII - prohibition from carrying out certain activities or modes of operation, for a maximum period of 10 (ten) years; 
 VIII - prohibition from participating in bidding processes for the granting or permission of public services in the direct or indirect federal public administration, for a period of not less than 5 (five) years; 
 IX - disqualification from acting as a director or administrator and from holding a position in a body provided for in the bylaws or articles of association of a legal entity that operates any type of lottery, for a maximum period of 20 (twenty) years. 
 Sole paragraph. One or more natural or legal persons may be considered, individually or jointly, responsible for the same infraction. 
 Article 42. In applying the penalties established in this Chapter, the following shall be considered: 
 I - the seriousness and duration of the infraction; 
 II - the offender's lack of prior convictions and good faith; 
 III - the degree of harm or the risk of harm to the national economy, to sport, to consumers or to third parties; 
 IV - the advantage gained by the offender; 
 V - the economic capacity of the offender; 
 VI - the value of the transaction; and 
 VII - recidivism. 
 § 1. An offender is considered a first-time offender if they have no final administrative conviction for violations of legislation or regulations applicable to the operation of lotteries. 
 § 2. Recidivism occurs when the offender commits a new offense of the same nature within a period of 3 (three) years following the date of the final administrative conviction decision relating to the previous offense. 
 § 3 In cases of recidivism, the fine will be applied alone or cumulatively with other sanctions, and its value will be doubled. 
 Section IV 
 From the Commitment Agreement 
 Article 43. The Ministry of Finance, in a duly justified judgment of convenience and opportunity, with a view to serving the public interest, may refrain from initiating or suspend, at any stage preceding the taking of the first instance decision, the administrative process intended to investigate an infraction foreseen in this Law, if the investigated party signs a commitment agreement in which they undertake to, cumulatively: 
 I - to cease the practice under investigation or its harmful effects; 
 II - to correct the irregularities identified and compensate for the damages; and 
 III - comply with the other conditions that may be agreed upon in the specific case, with mandatory payment of a monetary contribution. 
 § 1 The proposed commitment agreement may only be submitted once. 
 § 2 The proposed commitment agreement may, at the request of the interested party or by reasoned decision of the Ministry of Finance, be classified as a confidential document. 
 § 3 The submission of a proposed settlement agreement will suspend the running of the statute of limitations. 
 § 4 The proposed settlement agreement will be rejected if there is no agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the investigated parties regarding the obligations to be committed to. 
 § 5 The submission of the proposal and the signing of the commitment agreement shall not imply confession as to the facts nor recognition of the unlawfulness of the conduct analyzed. 
 § 6 The commitment agreement shall be entered into by the Minister of State for Finance, with delegation of authority permitted, and its public version shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Finance within 5 (five) working days from the date of its signature. 
 § 7 The commitment agreement will constitute an extrajudicial enforceable instrument. 
 § 8 The administrative process will be suspended on the date of publication of the commitment agreement by the Ministry of Finance, without prejudice to its resumption in the event of non-compliance with the obligations undertaken. 
 § 9 The suspension of the administrative process and the running of the statute of limitations will only have effect in relation to the interested party who submitted the proposal and signed the commitment agreement, while the process and the running of the statute of limitations will continue in relation to the other investigated or involved parties. 
 § 10. The commitment agreement will specify the amount of the fine to be applied in the event of total or partial non-compliance with the obligations undertaken. 
 § 11. If the obligations undertaken are declared to have been breached, the Ministry of Finance will apply the sanctions stipulated in the commitment agreement and will adopt other appropriate administrative, extrajudicial, and judicial measures for its enforcement. 
 § 12. The administrative process will be archived at the end of the period stipulated in the commitment agreement, provided that the obligations undertaken have been fulfilled. 
 § 13. The Ministry of Finance will issue supplementary regulations regarding the commitment agreement referred to in this article. 
 Section V 
 Regarding Coercive and Precautionary Measures 
 Article 44. The following measures may be applied, as a precautionary measure, before the initiation or during the processing of the administrative sanctioning procedure, when the requirements of plausibility and the danger of delay are present, in a reasoned decision: 
 I - temporary deactivation of instruments, equipment, systems or other objects and components intended for the operation of machines and installations; 
 II - Temporary suspension of premium payments; 
 III - collection of issued tickets; and 
 IV - other precautionary measures necessary for the protection of the legally protected interest. 
 Article 45. If there is well-founded suspicion of manipulation of results or other similar frauds, the Ministry of Finance may, as a precautionary measure: 
 I - the immediate suspension of betting and the withholding of prize payments in relation to the suspicious event; 
 II - the suspension or prohibition, for one or more operating agents, of betting on intervening or specific events occurring during the competition, match or dispute under investigation, other than the specific prediction of the final result; and 
 III - other restrictive measures aimed at preventing or mitigating the consequences of practices that violate integrity in sport. 
 Article 46. Failure to comply with precautionary measures, as well as refusal, omission, falsification, or unjustified delay in providing information or documents requested by the Ministry of Finance in the exercise of its supervisory duties, subjects the offender to the payment of a daily fine of R$ 10,000.00 (ten thousand reais) to R$ 200,000.00 (two hundred thousand reais). 
 Sole paragraph. The regulations of the Ministry of Finance will stipulate the application of the penalty fine and the criteria to be considered in determining its value, taking into account its objectives. 
 Section VI 
 Regarding the Administrative Sanctioning Process 
 Article 47. The administrative sanctioning process will be initiated in cases where there is evidence of an infraction foreseen in this Law or in other legal and regulatory norms applicable to fixed-odds betting lotteries whose compliance is monitored by the Ministry of Finance. 
 Article 48. The procedure for the administrative sanctioning process shall observe the provisions of the regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance in the exercise of the powers conferred upon it by § 3 of Article 29 of Law No. 13,756, of December 12, 2018. 
 CHAPTER XI 
 FINAL PROVISIONS 
 Article 49. The activity of developing or providing services related to fantasy sports does not constitute the operation of a lottery modality, commercial promotion, or fixed-odds betting, and is therefore exempt from authorization by the public authorities . 
 Sole paragraph. For the purposes of this article, fantasy sport is considered to be an electronic sport in which competitions take place in a virtual environment, based on the performance of real people, in which: 
 I - virtual teams must consist of at least 2 (two) real people, and the performance of these teams depends primarily on the knowledge, statistical analysis, strategy and skills of the fantasy sports players ; 
 II - the rules are pre-established; 
 III - the guaranteed prize amount is independent of the number of participants or the amount collected from registration fees; and 
 IV - the results do not stem from the isolated outcome or activity of a single person in real competition. 
 Article 50. Law No. 5,768, of December 20, 1971 , shall be amended as follows, with the sole paragraph of Articles 12 and 13 numbered as § 1: 
 Article 1 ........................................................................................................................ 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 § 7 The authorization act may impose a limitation, by taxpayer identification number (CPF), on the participation of consumers in each of the raffles, prize draws, contests or similar operations.”(NR) 
 "Article 12. Conducting operations without prior authorization subjects offenders to the following penalties, applicable alternatively or cumulatively:" 
 I - .................................................................................................................................. 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 b) prohibition from carrying out the operations for a period of up to 2 (two) years; and 
 c) warning. 
 § 1. Anyone who publicly promises to carry out operations governed by this Law, in violation of applicable regulations, shall also be subject to the penalties provided for in this article. 
 § 2. Recidivism is characterized by the commission of a new offense of the same nature within a period of 3 (three) years subsequent to the date of the final administrative conviction decision relating to the previous offense. 
 § 3 In the event of recidivism, the fine shall be applied alone or cumulatively with other sanctions, and its value shall be doubled.”(NR) 
 “Art. 13. .......................................................................................................................... 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 III - a fine of up to 100% (one hundred percent) of the sum of the values ​​of the goods promised as a prize; and 
 IV - warning. 
 § 1. Anyone who publicly promises to carry out operations governed by this Law, in violation of applicable regulations, shall also be subject to the penalties provided for in this article. 
 § 2 In the event of recidivism, under the terms of § 2 of article 12 of this Law, the fine shall be applied alone or cumulatively with other sanctions, and its value shall be doubled.”(NR) 
 “Art. 13-A. .................................................................................................................................... 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 III - a fine of up to 100% (one hundred percent) of the sum of the values ​​of the goods promised as a prize; and 
 IV - warning. 
 Sole paragraph. In the event of recidivism, under the terms of § 2 of article 12 of this Law, the fine shall be applied alone or cumulatively with other sanctions, and its value shall be doubled.”(NR) 
 “Art. 14. .......................................................................................................................... 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 III - subjection to a special inspection regime; 
 IV - a fine of up to 100% (one hundred percent) of the amounts received or to be received, as stipulated in the contract, as expenses or administration fees; and 
 V - warning. 
 Sole paragraph. In the event of recidivism, under the terms of § 2 of article 12 of this Law, the fine shall be applied alone or cumulatively with other sanctions, and its value shall be doubled.”(NR) 
 "Article 14-A. Infractions of the provisions of this Law and the acts that regulate it, not covered by Articles 12, 13, and 14 of this Law, subject the offender, individually or cumulatively, to the following sanctions:" 
 I - revocation of authorization; 
 II - prohibition from carrying out the operations for a period established by the Ministry of Finance, which may not exceed 2 (two) years; 
 III - a fine of up to 100% (one hundred percent) of the sum of the values ​​of the goods promised as a prize, to be established by the Ministry of Finance; and 
 IV - warning. 
 § 1. Recidivism is characterized by the commission of a new offense of the same nature within a period of 3 (three) years subsequent to the date of the final administrative conviction decision relating to the previous offense. 
 § 2 In the event of recidivism, the fine will be applied alone or cumulatively with other sanctions, and its value will be doubled. 
 "Article 17-A. In the event of a complaint with insufficient evidence of authorship or materiality, or containing defects or irregularities that may hinder its analysis, a period may be granted, only once, for the complainant to amend it, under penalty of dismissal." 
 "Article 18-A. The Ministry of Finance, in a duly justified judgment of convenience and opportunity, with a view to serving the public interest, may refrain from initiating or suspend, at any stage preceding the taking of the first instance decision, the administrative process intended to investigate an infraction foreseen in this Law, if the investigated party signs a commitment agreement in which they undertake to, cumulatively:" 
 I - to cease the practice under investigation or its harmful effects; 
 II - to correct the irregularities identified and compensate for the damages; and 
 III - comply with the other conditions that may be agreed upon in the specific case, with mandatory payment of a monetary contribution. 
 § 1 The proposed commitment agreement may only be submitted once. 
 § 2 The proposed commitment agreement may, at the request of the interested party or by reasoned decision of the Ministry of Finance, be classified as a confidential document. 
 § 3 The submission of a proposed settlement agreement will suspend the running of the statute of limitations. 
 § 4 The proposed settlement agreement will be rejected if there is no agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the investigated parties regarding the obligations to be committed to. 
 § 5 The submission of the proposal and the signing of the commitment agreement shall not imply confession as to the facts nor recognition of the unlawfulness of the conduct analyzed. 
 § 6 The commitment agreement shall be entered into by the Minister of State for Finance, with delegation of authority permitted, and its public version shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Finance within 5 (five) working days from the date of its signature. 
 § 7 The commitment agreement will constitute an extrajudicial enforceable instrument. 
 § 8 The administrative process will be suspended on the date of publication of the commitment agreement by the Ministry of Finance, without prejudice to its resumption in the event of non-compliance with the obligations undertaken. 
 § 9 The suspension of the administrative process and the running of the statute of limitations will only have effect in relation to the interested party who submitted the proposal and signed the commitment agreement, while the process and the running of the statute of limitations will continue in relation to the other investigated or involved parties. 
 § 10. The commitment agreement will specify the amount of the fine to be applied in the event of total or partial non-compliance with the obligations undertaken. 
 § 11. If the obligations undertaken are declared to have been breached, the Ministry of Finance will apply the sanctions stipulated in the commitment agreement and will adopt other appropriate administrative, extrajudicial, and judicial measures for its enforcement. 
 § 12. The administrative process will be archived at the end of the period stipulated in the commitment agreement, provided that the obligations undertaken have been fulfilled. 
 § 13. The Ministry of Finance will issue supplementary regulations regarding the commitment agreement. 
 Article 51. Law No. 13,756, of December 12, 2018 , shall enter into force with the following amendments: 
 “Art. 17. .......................................................................................................................... 
 I - .................................................................................................................................. 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 i) 22% (twenty-two percent) for sports organizations practicing the sport of football in exchange for the use of their names, brands, emblems, anthems or symbols for the promotion and execution of the specific prediction contest; 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 II - .................................................................................................................................. 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 i) 22% (twenty-two percent) for sports organizations practicing the sport of football in exchange for the use of their names, brands, emblems, anthems or symbols for the promotion and execution of the specific prediction contest; 
 ...............................................................................................................................................................”(NR) 
 “Art. 20. .......................................................................................................................... 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 V - 1.5% (one and five tenths percent) for sports organizations practicing the sport of football in exchange for the use of their names, brands, emblems, anthems, symbols and similar items for the promotion and execution of Lotex; 
 ...............................................................................................................................................................”(NR) 
 “Art. 22. ........................................................................................................................... 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 VIII - Sports organizations practicing the sport of football in exchange for the use of their names, brands, emblems, anthems, or symbols for the promotion and execution of the specific prediction contest and Lotex; 
 ...............................................................................................................................................................”(NR) 
 "Article 29. A lottery modality is hereby created, in the form of a public service, called fixed-odds betting, whose commercial operation will take place throughout the national territory." 
 § 1 The lottery modality referred to in the heading of this article consists of a betting system relating to real or virtual events in which it is defined, at the time the bet is placed, how much the bettor can win if the prediction is correct. 
 § 2 The fixed-odds betting lottery will be authorized, for a fee, by the Ministry of Finance and will be operated exclusively in a competitive environment, without limit to the number of authorizations, with the possibility of being marketed through any commercial distribution channels, subject to the provisions of special law and regulations. 
 § 3 The Ministry of Finance will regulate the provisions of this article.”(NR) 
 “Art. 30. ........................................................................................................................... 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 V - to the payment of income tax levied on the prize. 
 § 1º-A Of the proceeds collected after deducting the amounts referred to in items III and V of the heading of this article, 88% (eighty-eight percent) shall be allocated to cover the operating and maintenance expenses of the lottery operator for fixed-odds betting and other betting games, excluding the lottery modalities provided for in this Law, and 12% (twelve percent) shall have the following destinations: Production of effects 
 I - 10% (ten percent) for the education sector, as per the act of the Ministry of Education, through the following breakdown: 
 a) 6.50% (six and fifty hundredths percent) allocated to basic education schools in state and municipal public networks, including those that serve the modalities of professional and technological education, youth and adult education, indigenous school education, quilombola education, rural education, inclusive special education and bilingual education for the deaf, within the scope of the Direct Money to School Program (PDDE), established by Law No. 11,947, of June 16, 2009; 
 b) 3.50% (three and fifty hundredths percent) to public technical schools at the secondary level; 
 II - 13.60% (thirteen and sixty hundredths percent) for the area of ​​public security, through the following breakdown: 
 a) 12.60% (twelve and sixty hundredths percent) to the FNSP; 
 b) 1% (one percent) to the Integrated Border Monitoring System (Sisfron); 
 III - 36% (thirty-six percent) for the sports area, through the following breakdown: 
 a) 7.30% (seven and thirty hundredths percent) to entities of the National Sports System, observing the provisions of article 11 of Law No. 14,597, of June 14, 2023 (General Sports Law), and to Brazilian athletes or those linked to sports practice organizations based in the country, in exchange for the use of their names, their sports nicknames, their images, their trademarks, their emblems, their anthems, their symbols and the like for the dissemination and execution of the fixed-odds betting lottery; 
 b) 2.20% (two and twenty hundredths percent) to COB; 
 c) 1.30% (one and thirty hundredths percent) to CPB; 
 d) 0.70% (seventy hundredths of one percent) to the CBC; 
 e) 0.50% (fifty hundredths of one percent) to CBDE; 
 f) 0.50% (fifty hundredths of one percent) to CBDU; 
 g) 0.30% (thirty hundredths of one percent) to CBCP; 
 h) 22.20% (twenty-two and twenty hundredths percent) to the Ministry of Sport; 
 i) 0.70% (seventy hundredths of one percent) to the sports secretariats, or equivalent bodies, of the States and the Federal District; 
 j) 0.30% (thirty hundredths of one percent) to the Brazilian Master Sports Committee (CBEM); 
 IV - (revoked); 
 IV-A - 10% (ten percent) for social security; 
 V - 28% (twenty-eight percent) for the tourism sector, through the following breakdown: 
 a) 5.60% (five and sixty hundredths percent) to the Brazilian Agency for International Tourism Promotion (Embratur); 
 b) 22.40% (twenty-two and forty hundredths percent) to the Ministry of Tourism; 
 VI - 1% (one percent) for the Ministry of Health, for measures to prevent, control and mitigate social harm arising from the practice of games, in the areas of health; 
 VII - 0.50% (fifty hundredths of one percent) divided among the following civil society entities: 
 a) 0.20% (twenty hundredths of one percent) to Fenapaes; 
 b) 0.20% (twenty hundredths of one percent) to Fenapestalozzi; 
 c) 0.10% (ten hundredths of one percent) to the Brazilian Red Cross; 
 VIII - 0.50% (fifty hundredths of one percent) for the Fund for Equipping and Operationalizing the Core Activities of the Federal Police (Funapol); 
 IX - 0.40% (forty hundredths of one percent) for the Brazilian Agency for Industrial Development (ABDI). 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 § 2 The operating agents shall transfer the lottery proceeds directly to the legal beneficiaries referred to in item I, subparagraphs a to g and j of item III and item VII of § 1-A of this article. 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 § 6 The regulations referred to in § 3 of article 29 of this Law shall establish the form and process by which authorizations will be granted for all operators of the fixed-odds betting lottery modality to make use of: 
 I - the image, name or sporting nickname and other intellectual property rights of the athletes; and 
 II - the names, trademarks, emblems, anthems, symbols and similar items of sports organizations. 
 § 7 The allocation referred to in subparagraph a of item III of § 1-A of this article will be reverted, in the manner established by the regulations: 
 I - to sports organizations based in the country and to Brazilian athletes affiliated with them, in cases where their name, nickname, image, and other intellectual property rights are expressly the subject of a bet; or 
 II - to the national governing body for the sport in which the event takes place, when the participants are not part of the National Sports System. 
 § 8 The transfers referred to in items I, II, III, V, VI, VIII and IX of § 1-A of this article shall be calculated and collected by the operating agents, monthly, in the manner established by the regulations referred to in § 3 of article 29 of this Law. 
 § 9 The contribution referred to in item IV-A of § 1-A of this article shall be calculated and collected by the operating agents, monthly, in the manner established by the Special Secretariat of the Federal Revenue of Brazil of the Ministry of Finance, in the exercise of the powers referred to in art. 2 of Law No. 9,003, of March 16, 1995 . 
 § 10. Of the amount collected under item i of paragraph III of § 1-A of this article, 50% (fifty percent) shall be allocated to the sports secretariats, or equivalent bodies, of the States and the Federal District, and 50% (fifty percent) shall be distributed by the States to their respective Municipalities, in proportion to their population.”(NR) 
 "Article 32. A Supervision Fee is hereby established for the commercial operation of fixed-odds betting lotteries, the taxable event of which is the regular exercise of the police power referred to in § 2 of Article 29, and is levied monthly on the proceeds of the collection after the deduction of the amounts referred to in § 1-A of Article 30 of this Law." 
 § 1 The Inspection Fee covers all acts of regular police power inherent to the activity and will be applied according to the value ranges intended to cover the operating and maintenance expenses of the fixed-odds betting lottery operator monthly, as set forth in the Annex to this Law. 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
 § 6 The rate referred to in the heading of this article shall be updated monetarily by an act of the Minister of State for Finance, at intervals of not less than 1 (one) year, and the value of the update shall not exceed the variation of the official inflation index calculated in the period since the last adjustment. 
 ...............................................................................................................................................................”(NR) 
 CHAPTER VA 
 Regarding the exploitation of lotteries by the states and the Federal District. 
 Article 35-A. The States and the Federal District are authorized to operate, within their territories, only the lottery modalities provided for in federal legislation. 
 § 1 The operation of lotteries by the States and the Federal District may be carried out through concession, permission or authorization or directly, according to their own regulations, observing federal legislation. 
 § 2. Only one concession will be permitted to the same economic group or legal entity, and in only one State or in the Federal District. 
 § 3 In the event that the States and the Federal District operate a lottery modality similar to that provided for in Article 2 of Decree-Law No. 204, of February 27, 1967 , the use of the expression "Federal Lottery" is prohibited. 
 § 4. The marketing and advertising of lotteries by the States or the Federal District, carried out in physical, electronic or virtual media, shall be restricted to persons physically located within the limits of their jurisdictions or to those domiciled within their territory. 
 § 5. The multi-jurisdictional operation of state and district lottery services and the commercialization of lottery modalities are prohibited, and association, participation, agreement, sharing, representation, contracting, subcontracting or any arrangement, whether onerous or not, directly between States or between them and the Federal District, or through an interposed natural or legal person, with the objective of operating lotteries, including foreign lotteries, in physical, electronic or digital channels, or of executing support processes for this business, are not permitted. 
 § 6. For the purposes of § 5 of this article, the operation of a lottery that covers the territory and population physically located within the limits of the jurisdiction of more than one federative entity shall be considered multi-jurisdictional. 
 § 7 The States and the Federal District shall render accounts of the resources applied, respectively, to the state audit courts and to the Federal District Audit Court. 
 § 8. All concessions, permits, authorizations, or direct exploitations promoted by the States and the Federal District based on authorization procedures initiated before the publication of Provisional Measure No. 1,182, of July 24, 2023 , are preserved and confirmed in their original terms, understood as those whose first corresponding public notice or call for bids was published prior to the issuance of said Provisional Measure, regardless of the date of the actual conclusion or issuance of the concession, permit, or authorization, respecting acquired rights and perfected legal acts. 
 Article 52. Article 50 of Provisional Measure No. 2,158-35, of August 24, 2001 , shall be amended as follows: 
 "Article 50. An Authorization Fee is hereby established for the authorization of the activities covered by Law No. 5,768, of December 20, 1971 , which shall be levied on the value of the operating plan, in the manner and under the conditions established by an act of the Minister of State for Finance." 
 § 1 The Authorization Fee referred to in the heading of this article will be charged in accordance with Annex I of this Law. 
 § 2 (Repealed). 
 § 3 (Repealed). 
 § 4º (Repealed).”(NR) 
 Art. 53. (VETOED). 
 Article 54. The Annex to Law No. 13,756, of December 12, 2018 , shall be in force in the form of Annex II to this Law. 
 Art. 55. (VETOED). 
 Art. 56. (VETOED). 
 Article 57. The following are hereby repealed: 
 I - of Decree-Law No. 204, of February 27, 1967: 
 a) Article 1; and 
 b) Article 32; 
 II - of Provisional Measure No. 2,158-35, of August 24, 2001: 
 a) paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of article 50 ; and 
 b) Annex II; and 
 III - of Law No. 13,756, of December 12, 2018: 
 a) Article 28; 
 b) item IV of the main clause and item IV of § 1-A of article 30 ; Production of effects 
 c) Article 31; 
 d) Article 34 ; and 
 (e) Article 35. 
 Article 58. This Law enters into force on the date of its publication and produces the following effects: 
 I - Regarding item VI of article 39 , starting from the effective date of the Ministry of Finance regulation that allows interested parties to submit a request for authorization to operate fixed-odds betting; 
 II - Regarding article 51, insofar as it amends paragraph 1-A of article 30 of Law No. 13,756, of December 12, 2018 , to provide for social security contributions, starting from the first day of the fourth month following its publication; 
 III - with regard to subparagraph b of item III of article 57 , starting from the first day of the fourth month following its publication; and 
 IV - as for the other provisions, on the date of their publication. 
 Brasilia, December 29, 2023; 202nd year of Independence and 135th year of the Republic. 
 LUIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA 
 Fernando Haddad 
 André Luiz Carvalho Ribeiro 
 Gustavo José de Guimarães e Souza 
 This text does not replace the one published in the Official Gazette of the Union (DOU) on December 30, 2023 - Extra Edition, corrected in the DOU on January 8, 2024 , and corrected in the DOU on January 9, 2024. 
 ANNEX II 
 (Annex to Law No. 13,756, of December 12, 2018) 
 ANNEX 
 Price Range 
 Monthly Inspection Fee Amount 
 
 Up to R$ 30,837,749.76 
 R$ 54,419.56 
 
 From R$30,837,749.77 to R$51,396,249.60 
 R$ 90,699.26 
 
 From R$51,396,249.61 to R$85,660,416.00 
 R$ 151,165.44 
 
 From R$85,660,416.01 to R$142,767,360.00 
 R$ 251,942.40 
 
 From R$ 142,767,360.01 to R$ 237,945,600.00 
 R$ 419,904.00 
 
 From R$237,945,600.01 to R$396,576,000.00 
 R$ 699,840.00 
 
 From R$396,576,000.01 to R$660,960,000.00 
 R$ 1,166,400.00 
 
 Above R$ 660,960,000.01 
 R$ 1,944,000.00 
 
 
 ...................................................................................................................................” 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Presidency of the Republic, Civil House, Special Secretariat for Legal Affairs 
 
 
 LAW No. 14,790, OF DECEMBER 29, 2023 
 This law addresses the lottery modality known as fixed-odds betting; amends Laws No. 5,768 of December 20, 1971, and No. 13,756 of December 12, 2018, and Provisional Measure No. 2,158-35 of August 24, 2001; revokes provisions of Decree-Law No. 204 of February 27, 1967; and provides other measures. 
 
 The President of the Republic hereby announces that the National Congress decrees and I promulgate, pursuant to paragraph 5 of article 66 of the Federal Constitution, the following vetoed parts of Law No. 14,790 , of December 29, 2023: 
 “Art. 31. ........................................................................................................................... 
 § 1 For the purposes of this article, net prize shall be considered to be the positive result obtained from fixed-odds bets placed each year, after deducting losses incurred from bets of the same nature. 
 § 2 The tax referred to in the heading of this article shall apply to net prizes that exceed the value of the first bracket of the annual progressive income tax table. 
 § 3 The tax referred to in the heading of this article shall be calculated annually and paid by the last business day of the month following the month of calculation. 
 ................................................................................................................................................” 
 Brasilia, May 21, 2024; 203rd year of Independence and 136th year of the Republic. 
 LUIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA 
 This text does not replace the one published in the Official Gazette of the Union (DOU) on May 22, 2024. 
 
