State Treaty on the New Regulation of Gambling in Germany

The state of Baden-Württemberg,
the Free State of Bavaria,
the state of Berlin,
the state of Brandenburg,
the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen,
the Free and Hanseatic City of
Hamburg, the State of Hesse,
the state of Mecklenburg-Western
Pomerania, the state of Lower
Saxony,
the State of North RhineWestphalia, the State of
Rhineland-Palatinate,
the Saarland,
the Free State of Saxony,
the State of SaxonyAnhalt,
the State of Schleswig-Holstein
and the Free State of Thuringia
(hereinafter referred to as: "the countries")

conclude the following treaty:

1

State Treaty on the New Regulation of Gambling in Germany (State Treaty on Gambling
2021 - GlüStV 2021)1

From 29 October 2020

Section One General
Provisions
§ 1 Aims of the State Treaty
Goals of the state treaty are of equal importance
1. prevent the emergence of gambling and betting addiction and create the conditions for
effective addiction control,
2. to steer the natural gambling instinct of the population into orderly and supervised
channels by offering a limited range of games of chance as a suitable alternative to
unauthorized gambling, and to counteract the development and spread of unauthorized
gambling in black markets,
3. to ensure the protection of minors and players,
4. to ensure that games of chance are conducted properly, that players are protected from
fraudulent schemes, and that the consequential and accompanying crime associated with
games of chance is averted; and
5. To prevent threats to the integrity of sports competition when organizing and brokering
sports betting.
In order to achieve these goals, differentiated measures are envisaged for the individual
forms of gambling in order to take account of their specific potential for addiction, fraud,
manipulation and criminality.

§ 2 Scope of application
(1) With this state treaty, the federal states regulate the organization, conduct and brokerage
of public games of chance.

1 Notified under Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of

9 September 2015 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical
regulations and of rules on information society services (OJ L 241, 17.9.2015, p. 1).
2

(2) Only sections 1 to 3, section 4 (1) to (4), sections 5, 6, 7 to 8d, 20 and 23 and the
provisions of the Tenth Section shall apply to casinos.
(3) Only Sections 1 to 3, Section 4 (1), (3) and (4) sentence 2, Sections 5, 6, 7 to 8d and 23,
as well as the provisions of the Seventh and Tenth Sections shall apply to gaming arcades,
insofar as they provide amusement machines with the possibility of winning. Test devices
shall also be deemed to be gambling devices for money or goods with the possibility of
winning.
(4) Only Sections 1 to 3, Section 4 (3) and (4) sentence 2, Sections 5, 6, 7 to 8d and 23 as
well as the provisions of Section 10 shall apply to restaurants (pubs, restaurants and lodging
establishments) and bookmakers' betting offices, insofar as they provide money or goods
gaming machines with the possibility of winning.
(5) Only §§ 1 to 3, 5 to 9a and 23 and the provisions of the Eighth and Tenth Sections shall
apply to horse betting.
(6) Only §§ 1 to 9a, 21, 21a and 23 and the provisions of the Tenth Section shall apply to
sports betting.
(7) Only §§ 1 to 9a, 22a and 23 and the provisions of the Tenth Section shall apply to virtual
slot machine games.
(8) Only sections 1 to 9a, 22b and 23 and the provisions of the Tenth Section shall apply to
online poker.
(9) Only sections 1 to 4, 5 to 9a, 22c and 23 and the provisions of the Tenth Section shall
apply to online casino games.
(10) Only sections 1 to 4, 5 to 10, 12 to 18, 22 and 23 and the provisions of the Tenth Section
shall apply to lotteries.
(11) Only Section 11 of the Interstate Media Treaty shall apply to sweepstakes in
broadcasting (Section 2 (1) sentences 1 and 2 of the Interstate Media Treaty).

§ 3 Definitions
(1) A game of chance exists if, in the context of a game, a fee is charged for the acquisition
of a chance to win and the decision on the win depends entirely or predominantly on chance.
The decision on the win depends on chance in any case if the uncertain occurrence or
outcome of future events is decisive for this. Betting against payment on the occurrence or
outcome of a future event is gambling. Sports betting is betting at fixed odds on a future
event during a sporting event, on the outcome of a sporting event or on the outcome of
segments of sporting events. A sporting event is a sporting competition between people
according to defined rules. Horse bets are bets from
3

Occasion of public horse races and other public performance tests for horses.
(1a) Virtual slot machine games are replicas of terrestrial slot machine games offered on the
Internet. Online casino games are virtual replicas of banker games and live broadcasts of a
terrestrial banker game with the option of participation via the Internet. Online poker is any
variant of poker without a banker, in which various natural persons play against each other at
a virtual table on the Internet.
(2) A public game of chance is deemed to exist if a larger, non-closed group of persons has
the opportunity to participate or if it is a matter of habitually organized games of chance in
clubs or other closed societies.
(3) A game of chance within the meaning of paragraph 1, sentence 1, in which a majority of
persons are given the opportunity to win money according to a specific plan in return for a
specific payment is a lottery. The provisions on lotteries shall also apply if, instead of money,
items or other benefits of monetary value can be won (lottery).
(4) Gambling is organized and brokered where the player is given the opportunity to
participate.
(5) Retail outlets and lottery collectors are intermediaries integrated into the sales
organization of organizers pursuant to § 10 (2) and (3).
(6) Betting agencies are sales outlets integrated into the sales organization of sports betting
organizers either by the betting organizer or by agents who broker betting contracts
exclusively on behalf of a betting organizer.
(7) Bookmakers' localities are those as defined in Section 2 (2) of the Racing Betting and
Lotteries Act. They may be sales offices of the betting organizer that are integrated into the
sales organization of horse betting organizers. The regulations for bookmakers according to
the Race Betting and Lottery Act remain unaffected.
(8) Commercial gambling brokerage is carried out by anyone who is not a retailer, lottery
collector, betting agent or bookmaker,
1. brokers individual gaming contracts to an organizer of lotteries or
2. brings together interested parties to form lottery syndicates and arranges their
participation in the game for the lottery organizer - either itself or via third parties,
provided that this is done in each case with the intention of making a sustainable profit through
this activity.
(9) For the purposes of this Interstate Treaty, an amusement arcade is an enterprise or part
of an enterprise that is exclusively or predominantly devoted to the installation of amusement
devices in the

4

within the meaning of Section 33c (1) sentence 1 or the organization of other games within
the meaning of Section 33d (1) sentence 1 of the Trade, Commerce and Industry Regulation
Act (Gewerbeordnung) in the version promulgated on February 22, 1999 (BGBl. I p. 202), as
last amended by Article 5 of the Act of June 19, 2020 (BGBl. I p. 1403).

§ 4 General provisions on the granting of permission
(1) Public games of chance may only be organized or brokered with the permission of the
competent authority of the respective country. Organizing and brokering without such
permission (unlicensed gambling) and involvement in payments in connection with
unlicensed gambling are prohibited. If an organizer or broker of public games of chance
offers other services in addition to unlicensed games of chance in a manner that does not
allow those involved in payment transactions to process payment transactions in a
completely distinguishable manner and separately from the services offered, involvement in
payment transactions is also prohibited for the other services.
(2) The permit shall be refused if the organization or brokering of games of chance is contrary
to the objectives of § 1. Permission may not be granted for the brokering of games of chance
not permitted under this Interstate Treaty.
(3) Organizing and brokering public games of chance must not run counter to the
requirements of the protection of minors. The participation of minors is not permitted.
Organizers and intermediaries shall ensure that minors are excluded from participation.
Sentences 2 and 3 shall not apply to the participation of minors in games of chance pursuant
to Section 3 at public festivals, fairs, special markets and similar events if the prize consists
exclusively of goods of low value.
(4) A permit for public games of chance on the Internet may only be granted for the selfdistribution and brokerage of lotteries, for the organization, brokerage and self-distribution of
sports betting and horse betting, and for the organization and self-distribution of online casino
games, virtual slot machine games and online poker. In addition, the organization and
brokering of public games of chance on the Internet are prohibited.
(5) The granting of a permit pursuant to subsection 4 sentence 1 for public games of chance
on the Internet shall require that no grounds for refusal pursuant to subsection 2 exist and
that the following requirements are met:
1. The exclusion of underage or banned players is ensured by identification and
authentication and, if there is an obligation pursuant to § 8, by comparison with the ban
file.
2. Players are not allowed to play by the organizer, the agent, their employees or by

5

third parties commissioned by them; loans may not be advertised or otherwise referred
to or linked to on the Internet domain of the organizer or intermediary (loan ban). In the
case of lotteries in the form of prize savings pursuant to Section 12 (1) sentence 2, this
shall only apply to loans granted for participation in games of chance.
3. Special addictive incentives due to rapid repetition are excluded.
4. A social concept adapted to the special conditions of the Internet in accordance with §
6 shall be developed and implemented; its effectiveness shall be evaluated
scientifically.
5. Different forms of gambling may only be offered via the same Internet domain if an
independent and graphically separate area is set up for each form of gambling;
paragraph 1 remains unaffected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, sports betting and
horse betting may be offered together in one area of the same Internet domain. In one
area, gambling in the other areas may not be advertised or otherwise invited to gamble
in the other areas. After participation in a game of chance in one area, participation in
another area of the same licensee is permitted at the earliest after one minute has
elapsed; during this time, participation in free or demo games is not possible and
information on the dangers of and prevention of gambling addiction, as well as
information on counseling services, which the player must confirm before participation
in the other area, must be displayed in more detail in the social concept. The licensee
must ensure that winnings from one area can only be used for gambling in other areas
after a waiting period of one hour has elapsed. Sentence 4 shall apply mutatis
mutandis to switching between different Internet domains of the same licensee.
6. The requirements arising from §§ 6a to 6j and the requirements arising from this
Interstate Treaty and other statutory provisions shall be complied with.
(6) Organizers and brokers of lotteries on the Internet are required to report the number of
players and the amount of stakes by game and country to the authority responsible for
issuing licenses on a quarterly basis for the purpose of evaluation.

§ Section 4a Special Licensing Requirements for Sports Betting, Online Poker and
Virtual Slot Games
(1) A permit for the organization of sports betting, online poker and virtual slot machine
games may only be granted if
1. (extended reliability)

6

a) the ownership and participation relationships with the applicant are fully disclosed; in
the case of partnerships, the identity and addresses of all partners, shareholders or
other capital providers and, in the case of legal entities under private law, of those
holding more than five percent of the share capital or exercising more than five
percent of the voting rights, as well as generally all fiduciary relationships,
b) the applicant and the responsible persons appointed by the applicant have the
necessary reliability and expertise for the organization of public games of chance
and guarantee that the event is carried out properly and in a manner that is
comprehensible to the participants and the licensing authority; in the case of legal
entities and partnerships, all persons authorized to represent the entity must have
the necessary reliability and expertise,
c) the lawful origin of the funds required for the organization of public games of chance
is demonstrated,
d) neither the applicant itself nor an enterprise affiliated with it nor a person controlling
the applicant nor a person controlled by the person controlling the applicant
organizes or mediates unauthorized games of chance,
2. (performance)
a) the applicant has sufficient own funds for sustained business activity and at the
same time offers guarantees of irreproachable business conduct,
b) the economic viability of the intended gambling offer is demonstrated, taking into
account the levies,
c) the necessary security deposits have been prepared and the insurance policies
required for the further protection of the players have been concluded,
3. (Transparency and security of gambling)
a) the transparency of operations is ensured and it is guaranteed that monitoring of the
distribution network is possible at all times and cannot be thwarted by third parties or
parties involved in operations,
b) the applicant has a registered office in a member state of the European Union or a
state party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area,
c) if the applicant does not have a registered office in Germany, he/she must notify the
competent authority of an authorized recipient and representative in Germany who
is reliable as defined in No. 1 (b),

7

d) the applicant sets up its own accounting system for all gaming and payment
transactions in Germany and processes gaming-related payment transactions via an
account in Germany or at a credit institution domiciled in a Member State of the
European Union, and
e) the applicant provides interfaces for checking all gaming operations in real time.
(2) Other requirements for the granting of a permit remain unaffected.

§ Section 4b Permit Procedure for Sports Betting, Online Poker and Virtual Slot Games
(1) Permission to organize sports betting, online poker or virtual slot machines is granted
upon application. The application must be made in writing. It must contain all details,
information, evidence and documents in the German language which are necessary for the
examination of the requirements pursuant to § 4a (1). This includes in particular:
1. a description of the direct and indirect shareholdings as well as the capital and voting
rights of the applicant and the companies affiliated with it within the meaning of the
German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) as well as information on relatives within
the meaning of Section 15 of the German Fiscal Code (Abgabenordnung) among the
parties involved; the same shall apply to representatives of the person or per- sonal
company or the member of a body of a legal entity. In addition, the applicant's articles of
association and bylaws as well as agreements between the applicant and directly or
indirectly involved parties relating to the organization of games of chance must be
submitted,
2. a description of the measures taken to ensure public safety and order and other public
interests, with particular regard to IT and data security (security concept),
3. a social concept including measures to ensure the exclusion of minors and suspended
players,
4. a presentation of the economic efficiency taking into account the tax obligations (economic
efficiency concept),
5. a declaration of acceptance of the costs for the review of the safety, social and economic
concept and, if necessary, other documents by an expert or auditor consulted by the
competent authority,
6. a declaration of commitment by the applicant not to organize or broker unauthorized
gambling, either itself or through affiliated companies, and

8

7. a declaration by the applicant that the documents and information provided are complete.
Evidence and documents from another Member State of the European Union or another
State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area shall be deemed equivalent to
domestic evidence and documents if they show that the requirements of the conditions
specified in sentence 3 are met. The documents must be submitted at the expense of the
applicant as a certified copy and a certified German translation.
(2) The competent authority may request the applicants to supplement and submit further
information, evidence and documents in German in order to verify the prerequisites specified
in paragraph 1 sentence 4. It is authorized to request information from the federal and state
security authorities, in particular regarding the requirements set out in Section 4a (1) No. 1
(c). If the examination in the licensing procedure involves facts that relate to operations
outside the scope of this Interstate Treaty, the applicant shall clarify these facts and obtain
the necessary evidence. In doing so, he shall exhaust all legal and factual possibilities
available to him. The applicant may not plead that he is unable to clarify the facts or obtain
evidence if he could have obtained the opportunity to do so or had it obtained in the
circumstances of the case.
(3) The parties required to provide information and to submit documents within the scope of
the licensing procedure must notify the competent authority immediately of any change in the
relevant circumstances after filing the application and must notify the competent authority in
text form of any planned changes in shareholdings or other influences during the licensing
procedure.

§ Section 4c Granting of Permission for Sports Betting, Online Poker and Virtual Slot
Games
(1) The competent authority shall issue the permit for the organization of sports betting,
online poker or virtual slot machine games in writing with effect for all countries; if issued to
the applicant for the first time, it shall be issued for a period of five years, otherwise for a
period of seven years. In justified cases, the competent authority may specify a shorter
duration. The license may only be transferred or granted to a third party with the consent of
the competent authority.
(2) The permit shall specify the content and ancillary provisions required to permanently
ensure the conditions of the permit as well as compliance with and monitoring of the
obligations existing under this Interstate Treaty and assumed in the offer.

9

(3) The granting of the license is subject to the applicant providing security in the form of an
unlimited directly enforceable bank guarantee from a credit institution domiciled in the
European Union or in a state party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area to
secure the payout claims of players and state payment claims. The security deposit shall
amount to five million euros. It may be increased by the authority granting the permit up to
the amount of the expected average monthly turnover, up to a maximum of 50 million euros.

§ Section 4d Duties; Supervisory Measures for Sports Betting, Online Poker and
Virtual Slot Games
(1) The holder of a license for the organization of sports betting, online poker or virtual slot
machine games is obliged to notify the competent authority without delay of any change in
the circumstances relevant to the granting of the license. § Section 4b shall apply
accordingly. The cancellation of an agency relationship pursuant to § 4a para.
1(3)(c) shall not become effective vis-à-vis the competent authorities until a new receiving
and representing agent has been appointed and notified in writing.
(2) In the case of partnerships, any planned change in shareholdings or other influences, and
in the case of legal entities only those affecting more than five percent of the share capital or
voting rights, must be notified to the competent authority in writing. The licensee and the
parties directly or indirectly involved in the company are obliged to notify the competent
authority. The changes may only be confirmed as unobjectionable by the competent authority
if a permit could be issued under the changed conditions. If a planned change is
implemented that cannot be confirmed as unobjectionable in accordance with sentence 3,
the permit shall be revoked; the details of the revocation shall be governed by the applicable
national law. Notwithstanding the notification obligations pursuant to sentence 1, the licensee
and the parties directly or indirectly involved in the licensee shall be obligated, after the end
of each calendar year, to immediately submit a declaration to the competent authority as to
whether and to what extent a change has occurred in the participation and attribution facts
within the past calendar year.
(3) Notwithstanding § 6 (2) sentence 3 number 10, the licensee shall report annually. The
accuracy of the collection and transmission of the data may be verified at regular intervals by
an independent body. The report shall also be accompanied b y the audit report of a suitable
external and independent body on compliance with the technical standards and the
effectiveness of the security measures provided for in the security concept and prescribed in
the permit. Upon request of the

10

The licensee must also provide the competent authority with account data if the transactions
are not processed via a domestic account.
(4) If a licensee violates an existing notification obligation pursuant to Paragraph 1,
Paragraph 2 Sentence 5 and Paragraph 3 or the content and ancillary provisions of the
license specified pursuant to Section 4c Paragraph 2, the competent authority may require
him to comply with the obligations, setting a reasonable deadline. If, after expiry of the
deadline, the obligations are not complied with or not complied with in full, the competent
authority may take the following measures in particular, taking into account the seriousness
of the infringement:
1. public warning with renewed deadline,
2. Suspension of the permit for three months,
3. Reducing the duration of the permit by one-fourth of the total term, or
4. Revocation of Permit.
The same shall apply in the event that the licensee itself or a company associated with it
organizes or brokers unauthorized games of chance within the scope of this Interstate
Treaty. The provisions of the administrative procedure laws of the Länder corresponding to
Section 49 of the Administrative Procedure Act shall remain applicable. § Section 9 (4)
sentence 3 shall apply.

§ 5 Advertising
(1) Holders of a permit pursuant to § 4 may, subject to other statutory provisions, advertise
and sponsor the permitted games of chance. They may commission third parties to carry out
the advertising. The permit pursuant to Section 4 shall specify content and ancillary
provisions regarding the design of advertising for public games of chance, in particular on
television and the Internet, including television-like telemedia and video-sharing services, as
well as mandatory notices. Advertising via telecommunications equipment shall be
prohibited. Not included in the prohibition pursuant to sentence 4 are calls made by the
player or prospective player to the organizer or agent; such calls may, with the consent of the
player or prospective player, also involve advertising for permitted games of chance in view
of

Section

7

(2)

no.

2

of

the

Act

Against

Unfair

Competition.

Furthermore,

telecommunications within an existing contractual relationship are not covered by the
prohibition under sentence 4.
(2) The nature and extent of advertising for public gambling may not run counter to the
objectives of § 1. The advertising may not be excessive. Advertising for individual games of
chance may highlight special features of the respective game of chance. Advertising may not
be directed at minors or comparably vulnerable target groups. As far as possible, minors
11

shall be excluded as recipients of advertising.

12

Misleading advertising for public games of chance, especially those containing inaccurate
statements about the chances of winning or the type and amount of winnings, is prohibited.
Advertising must not portray the results of games of chance as being influenceable by the
player and games of chance as a solution to financial problems. Advertising that gives the
impression of being editorial content is prohibited.
(3) Between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. daily, no advertising may be made on the radio or Internet for
virtual slot machine games, online poker and online casino games; Paragraph 4 remains
unaffected. Immediately before or during the live broadcast of sporting events, advertising for
sports betting on that sporting event shall not be permitted on the broadcasting channel.
Advertising for sports betting with active athletes and officials is not permitted.
(4) In sports facilities, advertising for games of chance is only permitted in the form of
umbrella brand advertising on jerseys and boards and similar advertising media.
(5) Advertising addressed to individuals for games of chance in which blocked players are
not permitted to participate pursuant to Section 8 (2) may only be carried out if the prior
consent of the intended recipient to the receipt of advertising and to the querying of the
blocking file by the advertiser has been obtained. Personally addressed advertising for these
games of chance to blocked players is not permitted. Before sending such advertising, in
particular by mail or e-mail, advertisers are obliged to ensure that the recipient is not a
blocked player by checking the blocking file. If the comparison shows that a player is banned,
any consent previously given to the organizer or agent within the meaning of sentence 1 shall
be deemed to have been revoked.
(6) No variable remuneration, in particular remuneration dependent on turnover, deposits or
stakes, may be agreed or paid for advertising on the Internet for games of chance in which
banned players are not permitted to participate pursuant to Section 8 (2), in particular in the
form of affiliate links. Live scores of sports events may not be linked to advertising for sports
betting on this sports event; this shall not affect the display of live scores on betting offers on
a betting provider's own website.
(7) Advertising and sponsorship for unauthorized gambling are prohibited.

§ 6 Social concept
(1) Organizers and brokers of public games of chance are obliged to ensure the protection of
minors and players, to encourage players to gamble responsibly and to prevent the
development of gambling addiction.
(2) For these purposes, the organizers and brokers of public games of chance shall develop
and implement social concepts. In the social concepts, it must be set out, with

13

which measures are to be taken to prevent the socially harmful effects of gambling and how
these are to be remedied. The social concepts must be tailored to the different forms of
gambling and must contain at least the following information:
1. Appointment of representatives for the social concept at the licensee's premises
pursuant to § 4 and, in the case of terrestrial gambling services, the additional
appointment of a responsible person on site;
2. Consideration of the concerns referred to in paragraph 1 in internal corporate
communications, advertising and sponsorship;
3. Regular staff training for the supervisory staff in the gambling facilities, for the permit
holders according to § 4 and for the representatives according to number 1, involving
third parties qualified in addiction and pedagogy with the following minimum contents:
a) Legal bases for t h e protection of minors and gamblers, taking into account the
various forms of gambling,
b) Knowledge

to

Gambling addiction including

provider-independent

help offers and
c) Teaching of action skills, especially in the early detection of conspicuous gambling
behavior and communication with players;
4. Implementation of the protection of minors and identity checks, including comparison
with the barring file;
5. Education under Section 7, including reference to telephone counseling with a
uniform telephone number nationwide and the provision of information with the
following minimum content:
a) Risk of addiction and possible negative consequences of the various games of
chance,
b) Prohibition of participation by minors,
c) Tips on responsible gaming behavior,
d) Possibility of assessing one's own gambling behavior and personal risk,
e) References to provider-independent offers of help, whereby in the case of
gambling on the Internet, direct access to the Internet domains of independent
counselling institutions is to be made possible and special reference is to be made
to the independence of the corresponding offers of help, and
f)

Blocking procedure;

6. Early detection incorporating addiction science findings;
7. Early intervention and information about regional addiction counseling centers as well
as other provider-independent help offers;
8. Implementation of blocking procedures with self-blocking and third-party blocking;
9. Continuous documentation of the measures carried out for the purpose of

14

conclusions on the effects of the respective games of chance offered on gambling
behavior and on the development of gambling addiction, and to assess the success of
the measures implemented to protect minors and players;
10. Reporting on the basis of the documentation pursuant to number 9 every two years to
the gambling supervisory authorities or other competent licensing authorities.
(3) The managing personnel of organizers of public games of chance may not be
remunerated

depending

on

the

turnover.

The

personnel

employed

in

gambling

establishments as well as the personnel working in connection with gambling on the Internet
shall be excluded from the gambling offered there.
(4) Organizers and brokers of public games of chance shall be entitled and, at the request of
the competent authority, obliged to make data collected in connection with the social concept
available to the Länder in anonymized form for the purposes of gambling addiction research
pursuant to Section 11.

§ 6a Gambling account with the provider for gambling on the Internet
(1) Organizers and brokers of public games of chance on the Internet must set up a providerrelated gaming account for each player. Allowing players to participate in the game without a
gaming account is not permitted. Each player may only have one gaming account with the
same organizer or intermediary. Sentences 1 to 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
proprietary distribution of public games of chance.
(2) In order to set up the gaming account, a player shall register with the organizer or
intermediary with details of first name, last name, maiden name, date of birth, place of birth
and place of residence. Organizers and intermediaries with whom the registration is made
must verify the accuracy of the information. The verification shall be carried out by suitable
and reliable procedures. Individual suitable and reliable procedures may be determined in the
permit.
(3) If the accuracy of the information provided by the player can be verified during the
verification under paragraph
2 sentence 2 cannot be determined, the organizer or agent shall request the player to correct
the information or to provide proof of the accuracy of the information. The correctness of
corrected information shall be verified by the organizer or agent; paragraph 2 sentences 2
and 3 shall apply accordingly.
(4) Prior to confirmation of the accuracy of the information pursuant to paragraph 2, the
enabling of game participation and payouts to the player are not permitted. In deviation from
sentence 1, operators or intermediaries may enable participation in the game via a gaming
account up to a deposit limit of EUR 100 for a period of 72 hours from registration pursuant to
paragraph 2 sentence 1. In this case, before enabling the player to participate in the game,
15

the player shall be

16

to point out that payouts are not permitted until confirmation of the accuracy of his
information; the player shall confirm that he has taken note of the notice.
(5) The organizer and the intermediary shall regularly request the player to confirm the
information deposited in the gaming account in accordance with paragraph 2, sentence 1.
The possibility of notifying changes shall be provided for. The organizer and intermediary
shall immediately recheck the accuracy of the confirmed or changed information. The
facilitation of further participation in the game shall be inadmissible if the accuracy of the
confirmed or amended information cannot be determined; paragraph 3 shall apply mutatis
mutandis. Enabling further participation in the game shall be inadmissible even after the
expiry of one year from the date of the last confirmation of correctness as a result of a check
by the organizer. In the cases of sentences 4 and 5, payouts shall remain permissible.
Sentences 3 to
6 shall not apply to gaming accounts that exclusively allow participation in games of chance
in which banned players are permitted to participate pursuant to Section 8 (2).
(6) In the event of a change in the player's payment, bank and account details, the organizer
and agent shall again check the accuracy of the deposited details in accordance with
paragraph 2 sentence 1. Paragraph 5 sentences 4 and 7 shall apply accordingly. Prior to
confirmation of the correctness of the information, payouts are only permitted using the
payment, bank and account details of the player deposited prior to the change.
(7) The organizer and the intermediary shall give the player the possibility to close the
gaming account at any time. He shall be given the opportunity to enter a payment, bank and
account details for payment of the remaining balance. With the exception of sentence 2,
closing the gaming account may not involve more effort for the player than setting it up.
(8) Organizers and intermediaries shall block a gaming account if there is a suspicion that
winnings have been acquired unlawfully, legal provisions, in particular in the area of money
laundering, the present State Treaty or conditions for the gaming account are violated.
Players must be informed immediately of the reasons for the blocking, unless legal or official
requirements dictate otherwise. The organizer and agent must make a decision on the matter
within a reasonable period of time. The player cannot close the gaming account for the
duration of the block.

§ Section 6b Funds in the gaming account; deposits and withdrawals
(1) The game account shall record the amounts available for game participation. The
amounts are to be shown in euros and cents.
(2) Deposits made by the player must be credited to the gaming account immediately after
the payment is received by the organizer or intermediary. Winnings shall be credited to the
gaming account immediately. Withdrawals shall be made with the request of the
17

Withdrawal by the player without undue delay.
(3) Organizers and intermediaries must provide a function to specify that winnings above a
certain amount are paid out automatically.
(4) Payments to or from a gaming account may only be made from a payment account
pursuant to Section 1 (17) of the Payment Services Supervision Act that has been
established in the name of the player with an obligated party pursuant to Section 2 (1)
number 1 or 3 of the Money Laundering Act. Deposits or withdrawals via anonymous means
of payment shall not be permitted in distance selling.
(5) Transfers of money, game points or similar between game accounts are not permitted.
The credit prohibition pursuant to § 4 (5) number 2 shall apply.
(6) The funds available to players in the gaming account are entrusted funds, which must be
available in a clearing-free account at a credit institution, which must be separate from the
organizer's or intermediary's own funds and which may only be disposed of by the organizer
or intermediary. Disbursements from the settlement-free account may only be made to
players or to the organizer's or intermediary's own funds accounts in settlement of a claim of
the organizer or intermediary against players; funds in the settlement-free account may not
be used to cover claims of third parties against the organizer or intermediary. The funds must
be secured for cases of insolvency or insolvency of the organizer or intermediary or the credit
institutions where the players' funds are held in custody. The organizer or intermediary shall
have this confirmed by agents qualified to independently exercise a legal or tax advisory
profession for submission to the competent authority. The funds in the clearing-free account
must always correspond to the total amount in the players' gaming accounts.
(7) Organizer and intermediary shall transfer the balance on the gaming account to the
player's account immediately in case of closing of a gaming account, but no later than within
five business days. No fees may be charged for the closure and withdrawal.

§ 6c Self-limitation; limit file for gambling on the Internet
(1) Upon registration, players shall be requested to set an individual monthly cross-provider
deposit limit or to indicate that an already set individual monthly cross-provider deposit limit is
to be kept unchanged. In principle, the cross-provider deposit limit may not exceed EUR
1,000 per month. In order to achieve the objectives of § 1, the permit may specify that and
under what conditions the permit holder may set a different amount in individual cases with
cross-provider effect.

18

Sentence 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the organization of online casino games pursuant
to § 22c (1) sentence 1 no. 1 and the granting of licenses pursuant to § 22c (1) sentence 1
no.
(2) Binding framework regulations shall be established by the establishment pursuant to §
27a regarding the conditions under which a provider of online casino games may be
permitted to set a different amount pursuant to sentence 4. If no cross-provider deposit limit
is set for a player, the player shall not be permitted to participate in the game. The crossprovider deposit limit shall be deemed to have been exhausted if the sum of a player's
deposits in a calendar month to all organizers and agents of public games of chance on the
Internet that are subject to the cross-provider deposit limit pursuant to paragraph 9 reaches
the deposit limit individually set pursuant to sentence 1. If the monthly cross-provider deposit
limit set pursuant to sentence 1 has been exhausted, the player may not make any further
deposits; the licensee shall ensure this by taking appropriate measures. If players attempt to
set a monthly deposit limit that exceeds the amount pursuant to sentence 2 and sentence 3,
they shall be requested to correct their entry. Players may only be shown the amounts
pursuant to sentence 2 and sentence 3 as part of the request for correction.
(2) Furthermore, players shall at all times be given the option of setting additional providerrelated daily, weekly or monthly stake, deposit and loss limits. If a stake or loss limit is
exhausted, further participation in gaming may not be made possible; paragraph 1, sentence
8 shall apply mutatis mutandis to a deposit limit.
(3) Players shall be given the opportunity at any time to reset a limit in accordance with
paragraphs 1 and 2. If a player wishes to increase the limit, the increase shall only take effect
after a protective period of seven days. If limits are reduced, the new limits take effect
immediately.
(4) The competent authority shall maintain a central limit monitoring file (limit file) for the
purpose of monitoring the inter-provider deposit limit pursuant to paragraph 1. The limit file
shall process the personal data required to monitor the limit. The following personal data may
be processed:
1. Surnames, first names, maiden names,
2. Date of birth,
3. Birthplace,
4. Address,
5. Amount of the cross-provider deposit limit set by the player,
6. Date when the limit was set,
7. Amount and date of deposits made and

19

8. Total amount of deposits made.
The total amount of deposits made pursuant to No. 8 shall be composed of the deposits
made within the meaning of paragraph 6 sentence 4 in the current calendar month. The
authority responsible for maintaining the limit file may determine that the personal data
specified in sentence 3 numbers 1 to 4 may be replaced by a pseudonym, provided that this
does not impair the proper functioning of the limit file. In addition, a provider-related identifier
of the player may be processed, but may not be stored in connection with the personal data
specified in sentence 3 numbers 1 to 4.
(5) Whenever the cross-provider deposit limit is set or changed, the organizer and the
intermediary shall transmit to the limit file the personal data of the player specified in
paragraph 4, sentence 3, numbers 1 to 4, as well as the amount of the new deposit limit. If a
deposit limit was already stored in the limit file, it shall be replaced by the newly transmitted
limit; paragraph 3, sentences 2 and 3 shall remain unaffected. For the information of the
player, the transmitting organizer or agent shall be notified of the amount of the limit entered
as well as of any lower limit that may still have to be observed temporarily due to the
protection period pursuant to paragraph 3 sentence 2. If a player indicates upon registration
that an already set individual monthly cross-provider deposit limit is to be retained
unchanged, the organizer and intermediary shall transmit this information to the limit file
together with the player's personal data specified in paragraph 4, sentence 3, numbers 1 to
4. If, in the case of sentence 4, no cross-provider deposit limit is stored in the limit file for this
player, this shall be communicated back to the transmitting organizer or intermediary. The
latter shall request the player to set an individual monthly cross-provider deposit limit;
paragraph 1 sentence 6 shall remain unaffected. It may be stipulated in the permit or by
general order of the authority responsible for maintaining the limit file that, in the cases of
sentences 1 and 4, instead of the personal data specified in paragraph 4, sentence 3,
numbers 1 to 4, other data specified by the authority shall be transmitted which are suitable
and necessary for the unique identification of the player.
(6) Prior to the completion of each deposit transaction, the organizer and the intermediary
shall transmit to the limit file the data required for the clear identification of the player as well
as the amount of the deposit intended by the player. The transmission is only permitted if the
player has finally requested the intended deposit. The organizer or intermediary shall be
informed whether the inter-provider deposit limit has already been exhausted and whether it
would be exceeded by the intended deposit. If the inter-provider deposit limit is not
exhausted and would not be e x c e e d e d

by

the

intended

deposit,

the intended deposit shall be deemed to have been made.

20

deposit is stored in the limit file. If the cross-provider deposit limit is not yet exhausted before
the intended deposit and if it would be exceeded by the intended deposit, the limit file shall
additionally transmit the amount of the cross-provider deposit limit not yet exhausted. If the
cross-provider deposit limit is already exhausted, the intended deposit shall be rejected by
the organizer or the intermediary. The same shall apply if the intended deposit would exceed
the inter-provider deposit limit; in this case, the player may be informed of the amount of the
inter-provider deposit limit that has not yet been exhausted and a new deposit process may
be started to which sentences 1 to 6 shall apply again. The data required for the unique
identification of the player shall be specified in the permit or by general order of the authority
responsible for maintaining the limit file.
(7) The personal data referred to in paragraph 4, sentence 3, numbers 7 and 8 shall be
deleted immediately after the end of the month in which they were stored.
(8) The personal data specified in paragraph 4, sentence 3, numbers 1 to 6 shall be deleted
after one year has elapsed since the last activity in the limit file. Activity within the meaning of
sentence 1 is any transmission within the meaning of paragraph 5 sentence 1 and paragraph
6 sentence 1. If the personal data referred to in paragraph 4 sentence 3 numbers 1 to 6 have
already been deleted and a transmission is made in accordance with paragraph 6 sentence
1, the transmitting organizer or intermediary shall be notified of the deletion of the data. In
this case, the deposit transaction shall be cancelled and the player shall be requested to set
the limits again.
(9) The cross-provider deposit limit shall apply to all public games of chance on the Internet
with the exception of deposits that can be used exclusively for lotteries organized no more
frequently than twice a week and for lotteries in the form of prize savings. Instant lotteries on
the Internet are not considered lotteries within the meaning of sentence 1.
(10) The connection to the limit file and the use of the limit file are subject to a fee for the
permit holder. The Permit Holder may not charge the Player any costs or fees for setting or
changing a limit.

§ Section 6d Information Obligations of the Provider for Games of Chance on the
Internet
(1) Players must at all times be able to view the balance on the gaming account, the gaming
history as a whole and for each form of gaming, deposits and withdrawals, limits and
changes to limits, as well as other transactions of the last twelve months. The gaming history
pursuant to sentence 1 shall include the individual stakes, winnings and losses of the player,
stating the respective time.
(2) Organizers and intermediaries have to inform players about the sum of stakes, winnings
and
21

losses during the previous 30 days. This information must be provided after each
identification and authentication and before the start of a game if more than 24 hours have
passed since the last information. Participation in a game may only take place after the
player has expressly acknowledged the information.
(3) Upon request, organizers and intermediaries must promptly provide players free of
charge with an orderly listing of all transactions on the gaming account over the past twelve
months.

§ 6e Further Provisions on the Protection of Minors and Players in Internet Gaming
(1) The exclusion of minors and blocked players must be ensured at all times by means of
suitable technical procedures for identification and authentication. The permit may specify
requirements for the implementation of identification and authentication; in particular, it may
specify that, at regular intervals to be determined in the permit, an additional authentication
method must be used in deviation from the authentication method usually used.
(2) Random number generators used in games of chance on the Internet must be checked
for proper functioning by an independent expert body to be appointed by the competent
licensing authority at the expense of the licensee before they are used for the first time and at
least once a year thereafter. The competent licensing authority must be informed of the
results without delay.
(3) The offer of public games of chance on the Internet must be offered under an Internet
domain whose country-specific top-level domain is ".de". On the home page of the licensee's
Internet pages that can be called up under the domain name, it must be stated in a clearly
visible place that participation in games of chance is not permitted for persons under 18
years of age and that the licensee has a permit from the competent gambling supervisory
authority and is under its supervision. Direct access to the Internet domain of the competent
gambling supervisory authority must be provided.
(4) All information that the licensee must make available to players must be accessible in
German on the licensee's Internet domain containing the gambling offer and must be callable
from all pages of the domain.
(5) Players are to be informed directly about the risks and possible negative social
consequences of gambling when they participate in the game. Information on gambling
addiction shall be made available. Direct access to the Internet domains of independent
counseling institutions must be made possible.

22

§ 6f IT security concept
(1) Permit holders must describe and implement suitable security measures in the IT security
concept. The security concept must be reviewed regularly and revised if there is cause to do
so.
(2) At a minimum, security measures shall include the following:
1. the protection of players' personal data against unlawful processing at all times,
2. ensuring the permanent availability, integrity and confidentiality of data at all times, for
example through encryption mechanisms, access controls and virus protection
programs,
3. the regular backup of all relevant data,
4. The establishment and regular testing of processes that enable the rapid recovery of
backed-up data,
5. the protection of the systems used against manipulation from inside and outside and
6. the complete traceability of the integrity of the systems.
(3) The effectiveness of the safety concept must be checked at least once a year by the
licensee at his own expense by an independent expert body. The test report must be
submitted to the responsible licensing authority.

§ 6g Data protection, storage, retention and deletion
(1) Permit holders must keep the personal data of players for five years from the date of
closure of the gaming account. After the expiry of the period, the personal data must be
deleted.
(2) Existing personal data must be effectively protected from unauthorized access at all
times.
(3) The data subjects shall be informed about the nature and extent of the storage, retention
and deletion of their personal data.

§ 6h Prevention of parallel play with multiple providers on the Internet; waiting time
before switching providers on the Internet
(1) Parallel play of public games of chance by a player is illegal.
(2) To prevent cross-provider parallel play on the Internet, the

23

competent authority a file in which the following personal data of a player are processed:
1. Surnames, first names, maiden names,
2. Date of birth,
3. Birthplace,
4. Address and
5. the information whether this player is switched active in the sense of paragraphs 3 and 4.
§ Section 6c (4) sentences 5 and 6 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(3) The licensee may only allow a player to participate in public games of chance on the
Internet if the licensee has previously transmitted the data pursuant to paragraph 2, sentence
1, numbers 1 to 4 and the information that the player is to be activated in the file, and the
licensee has not immediately been informed that the player is already activated in the file. The
permit holder shall be informed that the player has been activated if he/she has transmitted
the message in accordance with sentence 1 and the information that the player has been
activated is noted in the file. If the player is not actively connected at the time of transmission
by the licensee pursuant to sentence 1, it shall be noted in the file pursuant to paragraph 2,
sentence 1, number 5 that the player is now actively connected. The transmission by the
licensee pursuant to sentence 1 may only take place immediately before the start of the
player's first match. Sentences 1 to 4 shall not apply to games of chance in which barred
players are permitted to participate pursuant to § 8 (2). It may be stipulated in the license or
by general order of the authority responsible for maintaining the limit file that, in the cases
referred to in sentence 1, instead of the personal data specified in subsection (2) sentence 1
numbers 1 to 4, other data specified by the authority shall be transmitted which are suitable
and necessary for the unique identification of the player.
(4) The information pursuant to paragraph 2, sentence 1, number 5 that the player is active
shall be removed five minutes (waiting period) after the licensee has reported to the file that
the player is no longer to be made active. The notification under sentence 1 may only be
made at the instigation of the player and in the cases specified in sentence 5. The permit
holder must give the player the opportunity to initiate the notification pursuant to sentence 1;
it must be easy for the player to do so. The report according to sentence 1 must be made
immediately after the player has initiated it. The permit holder shall also make the report
pursuant to sentence 1 without delay if more than 30 minutes have elapsed since the player's
last entry. After the player has initiated a report pursuant to sentences 2 to 4 or after a report
pursuant to sentence 5, the licensee may allow the player to continue participating in public
games of chance on the Internet only under the conditions set forth in paragraph 3.

24

(5) The data pursuant to paragraph 2 sentence 1 shall be deleted after expiry of the waiting
period pursuant to paragraph 4 sentence 1. The evaluation and use of the data for purposes
other than those described in the preceding paragraphs is not permitted.
(6) The file pursuant to paragraph 2 may be maintained jointly with the limit file pursuant to §
6c. If the file is maintained jointly, paragraph 5 shall apply subject to the proviso that only the
data pursuant to paragraph 2, sentence 1, number 5 shall be deleted without delay;
otherwise, § 6c, paragraph 8 shall apply.
(7) The permit holder must inform the player of the time that has elapsed since the last
transmission in accordance with paragraph 3, sentence 1. After 60 minutes have elapsed
since the last transmission in accordance with Paragraph 3 Sentence 1, further participation
in the game may only be made possible if the player is informed of the elapsed time and the
player has expressly confirmed that he has taken note of the information. Sentence 2 shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the expiry of a further 60 minutes in each case since the last
confirmation pursuant to sentence 2.
(8) The connection to and use of the file pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be subject to a charge
for the holder of the permit. The initiation according to paragraph 4 by the player is free of
charge.

§ Section 6i Early detection of gambling addiction; safe server; short-term ban
(1) Organizers of online casino games, online poker and virtual slot machine games on the
Internet, as well as organizers and brokers of sports betting on the Internet, must implement,
at their own expense, an automated system based on scientific findings and using algorithms
for the early detection of players at risk of gambling addiction and of gambling addiction;
details are to be specified in the permit. The system for the early detection of gambling
addiction shall in any case evaluate the data to be recorded on the gambling account and
shall be updated on a regular basis. It shall be taken into account in the social concept
pursuant to § 6. The social concept shall specify measures to be taken if the system for the
early detection of gambling addiction identifies a player who may be at risk of gambling
addiction. The measures shall be implemented.
(2) Organizers of sports betting, online casino games, online poker and virtual car games on
the Internet must set up and operate, at their own expense, a technical system which
accurately records all data required for the performance of gambling supervision, stores it
digitally in a non-modifiable form and enables electronic monitoring at any time, including
immediate access by the competent supervisory authority. The personal data must be
pseudonymized, whereby it must remain recognizable to the competent supervisory authority
which stored processes relate to the same player. Further details are to be determined by the
licensing authority in the permit or by general decree. In particular, it must be determined
25

whether the pseudonymization is to be carried out by the operator or by the competent
supervisory authority.

26

is carried out. In the event of pseudonymization by the supervisory authority, only checks
regarding compliance with the prohibition of participation by minors and the geographical
scope of the permit are permitted prior to pseudonymization. In the case of
pseudonymization by the organizer, the data required for checking compliance with the
prohibition of participation by minors and the spatial scope of the permit must remain
recognizable.
(3) In sports betting, online casino games, online poker and virtual slot machine games on
the Internet, a clearly recognizable and unambiguously labeled button shall be displayed, the
activation of which triggers an immediate short-term blocking of the player. The button shall
be permanently displayed wherever participation in the game is possible. § Section 8 (1) and
(2), Section 8a (4) and Section 23 shall apply mutatis mutandis, provided that the reason for
the suspension pursuant to Section 23 (1) sentence 2 number 7 shall be the actuation of the
button pursuant to sentence 1 and Section 23 (1) sentence 2 number 8 shall not apply. In the
case of the entry pursuant to Section 8a (4), the time at which the button was pressed shall
also be transmitted to the revocation file; this time shall be stored in the revocation file. The
blocking shall end without request after 24 hours from the time the button is pressed.
Notwithstanding Section 23 (5), the personal data entered shall be deleted within two weeks
of the end of the blocking period. After pressing the button, it is not permitted to ask the
player for confirmation.

§ 6j Free offers
(1) Organizers and brokers of public games of chance on the Internet may only offer free
entertainment services, which, with the exception of the non-payment of a fee and the
absence of a cash prize, correspond to a public game of chance organized or brokered by
them or are modeled on such games of chance, to players for whom they have set up a
gaming account as defined in Section 6a. The licensee may not enable the use of such
entertainment services without a gaming account. Sentence 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to
the enabling of minors and blocked players to participate.
(2) If organizers and intermediaries offer free entertainment services within the meaning of
paragraph 1 sentence 1 which correspond to a specific public game of chance on the Internet
or which, in particular by their name or external design, give the impression of corresponding
to a specific virtual slot machine game or an online casino game, the free entertainment
service must correspond to the public game of chance as a whole, in particular with regard to
the probability of winning and the payout ratio, with the exception of the fee which is not
payable and the lack of cash winnings. Insofar as fees or similar charges must be paid by the
player for the benefit of the licensee or third parties in the case of public games of chance,
these shall be simulated in the case of free entertainment offers within the meaning of
paragraph 1 sentence 1 and
27

Specify.

§ 7 Clarification
(1) Organizers and brokers of public games of chance must provide gamblers with gamblingrelated information before they participate in the game, as well as informing them about the
addictive nature of the games of chance they offer, the prohibition of minors from
participating, and the possibilities of counseling and therapy. Information relevant to gambling
may include, in particular:
1. all costs incurred in connection with the participation,
2. the amount of all profits,
3. when and where all profits will be published,
4. the percentage of payouts for winnings from the stake (payout percentage),
5. Information on the probabilities of profit and loss,
6. the closing date of participation,
7. the method by which the winner is determined, in particular the information about the
random mechanism underlying the generation of the random game results,
8. how the winnings are divided between the winners,
9. the cut-off date by which winners must claim their winnings,
10. the name of the permit holder and his/her contact details (address, e-mail, telephone),
11. the commercial register number (if available),
12. how the player can make complaints and
13. the date of the issued permit.
Information about maximum winnings must be combined with information about the
probability of winning and losing. Players and authorities must have easy access to this
information.
(2) Tickets, gaming slips, gaming receipts and comparable certificates must contain
information on the risk of addiction posed by the respective game of chance and on the
possibilities of assistance; in the case of games of chance offered via the Internet, a link to
corresponding offers pursuant to Section 6 (2) sentence 3 number 5 shall be provided.

§ 8 Player blocking system; comparison with the blocking system
(1) To protect players and combat gambling addiction, a central,
28

maintain a blocking system (§ 23) covering all forms of play.
(2) Banned players are not allowed to participate in public games of chance. Exempted from
the ban is participation in lotteries organized no more frequently than twice a week, lotteries
in the form of prize savings and horse betting offered by clubs operating the business of a
totalisator pursuant to Section 1 of the Racing Betting and Lotteries Act or at a domestic
horse racing track on a stationary basis. Instant lotteries on the Internet are not considered
lotteries within the meaning of sentence 2.
(3) Organizers and brokers of games of chance in which barred players are not permitted to
participate are obliged to identify persons willing to play by checking an official ID or a
comparable identity check and to carry out a comparison with the barring file pursuant to
Section 23. In the case of games of chance on the Internet, identification shall take place
prior to the comparison with the aid of suitable technical procedures. Organizers and brokers
of games of chance shall ensure that blocked players do not participate in games of chance.
In the case of games of chance on the Internet, the matching shall take place at the time at
which the provider's transmission is to be made pursuant to Section 6h (3) sentence 1. In the
terrestrial sector, the comparison must be carried out in betting agencies, amusement
arcades and casinos each time a player enters the premises, and otherwise before the first
game during a stay in the respective gaming establishment.
(4) Organizers and intermediaries of games of chance in which blocked players are not
allowed to participate may not influence them to apply for unblocking. No benefits such as
bonuses or discounts may be granted to players whose player block has been lifted.

§ 8a Entry and duration of the blocking
(1) Organizers and brokers of games of chance in which blocked players are not allowed to
participate shall block persons who request this (self-blocking) or of whom they know from
the perception of their staff or from reports by third parties or must assume on the basis of
other factual indications that they are at risk of gambling addiction or are overindebted, do
not meet their financial obligations or risk gambling stakes that are disproportionate to their
income or assets (third-party blocking).
(2) An application for a self-blocking or third-party blocking can also be submitted to the office
responsible for maintaining the blocking file.
(3) Before an external suspension is entered, the player shall be given the opportunity to
comment. The opportunity as well as any statement shall be documented.
(4) The organizers, the intermediaries and, in the case of paragraph 2, the persons
responsible for keeping the

29

Blocking File shall enter the data specified in Section 23 (1) in a blocking file. An entry shall
also be made if not all data can be collected.
(5) The person entering the block shall immediately notify the data subject in text form that a
block has been entered for his or her person and inform him or her of the procedure for
ending the block.
(6) The blocking period is at least one year, unless the person requesting a self-blocking
period requests a different period, which, however, may not be less than three months. If a
shorter period than three months is specified, this shall be deemed to be a specification of
three months.
(7) The obligors under paragraph 1 shall keep the freezing applications in the case of selffreezing and the documents arising in the case of third-party freezing. In the event of closure
of the business, mergers, insolvency or the existence of other reasons which make it
impossible for the obligated party within the meaning of paragraph 1 to continue to retain
these documents, the obligated party shall hand over all documents relating to the blocking
to the authority responsible for maintaining the blocking file. If there is a legal successor, the
authority responsible for maintaining the revocation file may assign the revocations to this
successor and hand over the associated documents to it for responsible storage.

§ 8b Termination of the lock
(1) The block can only be lifted upon written request of the blocked person. This also applies
if a specific period was specified for the duration of the block when the request was made.
The application may be submitted at the earliest after expiry of the minimum duration of the
suspension pursuant to Section 8a (6). If no application is submitted in accordance with
sentence 1, the freeze shall not end.
(2) The application for lifting the block must be submitted to the authority responsible for
maintaining the blocking file. It is sufficient to forward the application by an organizer or
intermediary.
(3) In the event of an application for the lifting of a self-lock or third-party lock, the authority
responsible for maintaining the lock file shall arrange for the lock to be lifted by making a
corresponding entry in the lock file. The unblocking shall take effect after entry, but not before
one week has elapsed in the case of a self-lock and not before one month has elapsed in the
case of a third-party lock, after receipt of the application by the authority. The applicant must
be notified of the unblocking.
(4) In the event of a request for the lifting of a third-party blocking, the authority responsible
for maintaining the blocking file shall, without undue delay after receipt of the request, notify
the organizer or
30

The intermediary who entered the third-party block must be informed of the receipt of the
request. If the third-party block is based on a notification from a third party, the third party
must also be informed about the request and the possibility of submitting a new blocking
request.

§ 8c Costs for the use of the blocking system
Connection to and use of the barring system shall be subject to a charge for those obligated
under § 8 (3). The issuance of a blocking request and an application for termination of the
blocking are free of charge.

§ Section 8d Transfer of data from other blocking files to the nationwide blocking
system covering all forms of gambling.
(1) The data from the comprehensive barring system created by the First Interstate Treaty
Amending the Interstate Treaty on Gaming and the Hessian barring file for gaming arcades
will be transferred to the nationwide barring system for all types of games. Other state-law
barring files for gaming arcades can also be transferred.
(2) The data subjects shall be notified of this by means of a public announcement by the body
previously responsible for the transferred file.
(3) If unblocking regulations deviating from § 8b apply to the transferred blocking systems,
these shall become obsolete upon completion of the transfer. Unblocking shall be governed
exclusively by Section 8b.

Section Two Tasks of
the State
§ 9 Gambling supervision
(1) The gambling supervisory authority shall be responsible for monitoring the fulfillment of
the public-law obligations existing under this Interstate Treaty or established on the basis of
this Interstate Treaty and for working to ensure that unauthorized gambling and advertising
for it do not occur. The authority responsible for all Länder or in the respective Land may
issue the necessary orders in individual cases. It may, without prejudice to other measures
provided for in this Interstate Treaty and other statutory provisions, in particular
1. demand at any time information and presentation of all documents, data and evidence
required f o r the examination within the scope of sentence 1, as well as for the
purpose of this

31

Examination during normal business and working hours enter the business premises
and properties where public gambling is organized or brokered,
2. Set requirements for the organization, conduct and mediation of public games of
chance and the advertising thereof, as well as for the development and implementation
of the social concept,
3. prohibit the organization, conduct and brokering of unauthorized games of chance and
the advertising thereof,
4. prohibit those involved in payment transactions, in particular credit and financial service
institutions, from participating in payments for unauthorized gambling and in payouts
from unauthorized gambling after prior notification of unauthorized gambling offers,
without requiring prior recourse to the organizer or intermediary of public gambling by
the gambling supervisory authority; this shall also apply in the cases of Section 4 (1)
sentence 3; and
5. after prior notification of unauthorized gambling offers, take measures to block these
offers against service providers responsible within the meaning of Sections 8 to 10 of
the Telemedia Act, in particular access brokers and registrars, insofar as measures
against an organizer or broker of this gambling prove to be impracticable or not
promising; these measures may also be taken if the unauthorized gambling offer is
inseparably linked to further content.
The fundamental right of secrecy of telecommunications (Article 10 (1) of the German Basic
Law) is restricted by the provision under sentence 3 no. 5. This affects telecommunications
processes within the meaning of Section 88 (3) sentence 3 of the Telecommunications Act.
(1a) If unauthorized gambling is organized or brokered in more than one country or if it is
advertised in more than one country or if obligations under public law as defined in sentence
1 are violated in any other way, each country concerned may authorize the competent
authority of another country to issue and enforce the necessary orders in individual cases,
also with effect for the country concerned. Enforcement shall be governed by the law of the
authorized country.
(2) Objection and action against orders under paragraphs 1 and 1a shall not have
suspensive effect. In the case of enforcement of orders under paragraphs 1 and 1a by
means of a periodic penalty payment, the latter shall achieve the economic interest of the
obligor in performing or failing to perform the act. If the statutory maximum is not sufficient for
this purpose, it may be exceeded. The economic interest of the obligor shall be estimated in
accordance with due discretion.
(2a) In order to carry out their duties, the gambling supervisory authorities may make test
purchases or

32

conduct test games which are not recognizable as measures of the gambling supervision.
For this purpose, the employees of the gambling supervisory authority may participate in
legal transactions under a permanently changed identity (legend). For this purpose, suitable
documents may be produced, procured and used, and necessary entries may be made in
registers, books or files. Test purchases or test games involving minors may be carried out
by the gambling supervisory authorities in the performance of their supervisory duties. For
the person conducting the test purchase or test game, the gambling shall not be considered
unauthorized gambling.
(3) The federal states shall cooperate in the supervision of gaming; they may also cooperate
with the competent supervisory authorities of the member states of the European Union and
the states party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and exchange data for
this purpose to the extent necessary for the performance of their duties. Unless otherwise
provided under this Interstate Treaty, the Länder shall coordinate the permits for the
operators referred to in Section 10 (2) in consultation with each other.
(3a) The competent gambling supervisory authorities shall, within the scope of fulfilling their
duties, cooperate in particular with the law enforcement authorities, the state media
authorities, the Federal Network Agency, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority and the
Federal Cartel Office and may, to the extent necessary, exchange data for this purpose. This
shall apply accordingly to the state media authorities with regard to cooperation with the
gambling supervisory authorities.
(4) Unless otherwise specified in this Interstate Treaty, the permit shall be issued by the
competent authority for the territory of the respective Land or a part thereof. It shall be
revocable and limited in time. It may, also subsequently, be subject to ancillary provisions.
The permit is neither transferable nor can it be handed over to another person to exercise.
(5) Permission to introduce new gambling services by the operators referred to in Section 10
(2) and (3) shall require that
1. the advisory board (Section 10 (1) sentence 2) has previously examined and evaluated
the effects of the new service on the population, taking into account the objectives of
Section 1, and
2. the organizer reports to the licensing authority on the social impact of the new offer
following the introduction of this game of chance.
New gambling offers are equivalent to the introduction of new or the significant expansion of
existing distribution channels by organizers or intermediaries.
(6) Information on the personal and factual circumstances of a natural or legal person or a
partnership, as well as business or trade secrets, which the competent authorities, their
bodies, their employees or third parties commissioned by them
33

The data may not be disclosed to third parties without authorization if it has been entrusted to
them or otherwise become known to them in the course of the performance of their duties.
Insofar as personal data are processed, the data protection provisions applicable in the
respective country shall apply.
(7) Gambling supervision may not be exercised by an authority that is responsible for the
finances of the Land or for the administration of the shareholdings of the organizers referred
to in Section 10 (2) and (3).
(8) The competent authority shall publish on the Internet a common official list of organizers
and brokers of games of chance who have a permit or concession under this Interstate
Treaty. The following shall not be listed
1. Operators of gaming arcades and operators of slot machines with the possibility of
winning in accordance with the Gaming Ordinance as amended,
2. the acceptance points of the organizers according to § 10 paragraph 2,
3. commercial gaming brokers operating in one country only,
4. local sales outlets of the lottery collectors of the Joint Class Lottery of the Federal
States,
5. Providers of small lotteries pursuant to § 18,
6. Operators of local betting agencies,
7. Totalizers and bookmakers as defined by the Racing and Lotteries Act.
The list is updated on an ad hoc basis, but at least once a month. The competent authority
shall provide information on the current status of the list upon request. The supreme gaming
supervisory authorities of the federal states shall notify the competent authority without delay
of any changes to the list that affect their area of responsibility.

§ 9a Uniform country procedures
(1) The respective competent authority issues with effect for all countries
1. the permits for the establishment under Section 10(3) and for its lottery entrants,
2. permits for a jointly managed institution pursuant to the first sentence of Section 10(2),
3. permits for the brokerage of sports betting on the Internet, for the organization of sports
betting, online poker and virtual slot machine games, as well as the permit pursuant to
§ Section 27(2), including the respective related permits; and
4. the permits according to § 12 paragraph 3.
(2) In the cases referred to in subsection 1, the authority responsible for granting the license
shall also perform the duties of gaming supervision pursuant to § 9 (1) with respect to the
licensees with effect for all states as of the date on which the license is granted.
34

The competent authorities may issue the necessary orders in individual cases and enforce
them in accordance with the national law applicable to them, as well as carry out official acts
in other countries for this purpose. The authority responsible under sentence 1 shall, in
particular, monitor compliance with the content and ancillary provisions of the permit and
decide on measures under sections 4a to 4d. § Section 9 (2) and (2a) shall apply mutatis
mutandis.
(3) Uniform responsibility of an authority for all countries also exists for measures
1. pursuant to § 9 (1) sentence 3 number 4 and number 5 in the case of unauthorized
games of chance offered in more than one country, and
2. the gambling supervisory authority for unauthorized public gambling and advertising
thereof, which is offered on the Internet in more than one country.
Sentence 1 No. 2 shall not apply to unauthorized online casino games that are organized or
brokered by an organizer who has been granted an effective permit for the organization of
online casino games within the scope of the permit.
(4) The competent authorities pursuant to subsections 1 and 2 shall charge costs (fees and
expenses) for official acts in fulfillment of the duties pursuant to subsections 1 to 3. For the
granting of a permit for the organization of a game of chance, the following fees shall be
charged in the case of approved or anticipated gaming or betting stakes
1. up to EUR 40 million, a fee of 0.2 percent of the gaming or betting stakes, with a
minimum of EUR 100,
2. over 40 million euros up to 65 million e u r o s a fee of 80,000 euros plus 0.16 percent of
the gaming or betting stakes exceeding 40 million euros,
3. over 65 million euros up to 130 million euros a fee of 120,000 euros plus 0.1 percent of
the gaming or betting stakes exceeding 65 million euros,
4. over 130 million euros, a fee of 185,000 euros plus 0.06 percent of the stakes or
wagers exceeding 130 million euros
The fee shall be based on the sum of the approved or anticipated gaming or wagering stakes
in all participating countries. For permits pursuant to paragraph 1, numbers 1, 2 and 4, the
fee pursuant to sentence 2 shall be reduced by half. If the permit is granted for several
consecutive years or events, the calculation shall be made separately for each year and each
event, whereby the fee pursuant to sentences 2 and 3 shall be reduced by 10 percent for the
subsequent years or subsequent events. A fee in the amount of 50 percent of the fee
pursuant to sentences 2 and 3 shall be charged for the issuance of a permit for brokering a
game of chance; sentence 4 shall apply accordingly. A fee of EUR 500 to EUR 500,000 shall
be charged for orders to eliminate or terminate unlawful conditions and for other orders
issued by the gambling supervisory authorities; the administrative expenses of all authorities
involved in connection with the official act shall be taken into account.
35

and agencies must be taken into account. In all other respects, the cost regulations of the
respective country of domicile of the acting authority shall apply.

§ 10 Ensuring an adequate supply of gambling services
(1) In order to achieve the objectives of Section 1, the Länder have the regulatory task of
ensuring an adequate supply of games of chance. They shall be advised by an advisory
board of experts. This advisory board shall be composed of persons who have special
scientific or practical experience with regard to the objectives of Section 1.
(2) On a statutory basis, the Länder may perform this public task themselves, through a
public institution jointly managed by all the contracting Länder, through legal entities under
public law or through private-law companies in which legal entities under public law directly or
indirectly hold a significant interest. On the basis of an administrative agreement, joint
performance of the task or performance of the task by the enterprise of another Land which
meets the requirements of sentence 1 shall also be possible.
(3) Class lotteries may only be organized by a public law institution jointly supported by all
contracting countries.
(4) The Länder shall limit the number of receiving offices in order to achieve the objectives of §
1.
(5) It shall be ensured that a substantial part of the income from games of chance of the
persons mentioned in paragraphs 2 and 3 is used for the promotion of public or charitable,
ecclesiastical or benevolent purposes.
(6) Persons other than those specified in paragraphs 2 and 3 may only be permitted to
organize lotteries and lotteries in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.

§ 11 Addiction prevention, addiction counseling and addiction research
The federal states ensure addiction prevention measures, appropriate counseling services
and scientific research to prevent and ward off the dangers of addiction caused by gambling.

Third section
Lotteries with lower risk potential
§ 12 Permission
(1) Permission to organize a lottery or draw pursuant to § 4 (1) may be granted to persons
other than those mentioned in § 10 (2) and (3) only if

36

1. the event is not precluded by any grounds for refusal pursuant to § 13,
2. the requirements specified in §§ 14, 15 (1) and (2) and § 16 (3) are met,
3. no economic purposes are pursued with the event that go beyond the advertising effect
associated with the reference to the provision of prizes, and
4. it is not to be expected that public safety or order will be endangered by the event itself
or by the realization of the purpose of the event or the use of the net proceeds, or that
the relations of the Federal Republic of Germany with other states will be impaired.
Sentence 1 No. 3 shall not apply to lotteries in the form of profit savings if a partial amount of
no more than 25 percent of a participation amount is used as a ticket share for the profit
savings lottery.
(2) The permit shall also determine the extent to which the requirements of §§ 6 to 7 are to
be met.
(3) If a lottery with a uniform cross-border game plan is to be organized in all countries, the
permission to conduct it shall be granted on a country-by-country basis. If a lottery with a
uniform cross-border schedule is to be organized only in some countries, the country in
which the organizer has its registered office may also grant permission with effect for the
countries that have authorized it to do so.

§ 13 Reasons for refusal
(1) Permission may not be granted if the event contradicts Section 4 (2) to (5). This is
particularly the case if it cannot be ruled out that the organization of the lottery promotes the
gambling instinct in a special way due to the overall gambling offer already existing, in
particular with regard to the number of games of chance already organized or their type or
implementation.
(2) In particular, a permit may not be issued if
1. the game plan provides that
a) the announcement of the drawing results is made more often than twice a week,
b) the maximum prize exceeds a value of three million euros or
c) parts of the fee payable by the player are accumulated for the purpose of creating
winnings for future draws (scheduled jackpot),
or

37

2. interactive participation in broadcasting and telemedia with prompt announcement of
prizes.

§ 14 Organizer
(1) Permission may be granted only if the organizer
1. meets the requirements of Section 5 (1) No. 9 of the Corporation Tax Act, and
2. is reliable, and in particular guarantees that the event is conducted properly and in a
manner that is comprehensible to the players and the licensing authority, and that the
net proceeds are used for the intended purpose.
Sentence 1 No. 1 shall not apply to lotteries organized by the organizers specified in Section
10 (2) and (3) and by the public corporation "Bayerisches Rotes Kreuz" and to events in the
form of profit savings (Section 12 (1) Sentence 2).
(2) If the event is to be carried out entirely or predominantly by a third party, permission may
only be granted if there is no risk that the transparency and controllability of the event will be
impaired as a result of the event being carried out and the third party
1. meets the requirements of paragraph 1 number 2 and
2. is subject to the instructions of the organizer with regard to the implementation of the
event and has no significant legal or factual influence on the organizer.

§ 15 Game plan, calculation and realization of the event
(1) According to the game plan, the net profit, the profit total and the costs must be in
reasonable proportion to each other; the costs of the event must be kept low. Net income is
the amount resulting from the sum of fees after deduction of costs, profit total and taxes. At
least 30 percent of the fees should be earmarked for the net income and the profit total in the
game plan, and there must be no reason to assume that these proportions will not be
achieved. A calculation showing the probable costs of the event, the profit total, the taxes
and the net income shall be submitted with the application. If it becomes apparent after the
permit has been issued that the calculated costs are likely to be exceeded, this must be
notified to the permit authority without delay and a new calculation submitted.
(2) The costs of the lottery may include costs of third parties within the meaning of § 14 (2) in
terms of type and scope only to the extent that they comply with the principles of economic
management. The remuneration of the third party shall not depend on the turnover

38

can be calculated.
(3) The organizer shall submit to the competent authority all documents and provide all
information required to verify the proper conduct of the lottery. In particular, he shall submit a
statement of account showing the actual amount of revenue, net profit, distribution of
winnings and costs of the event.
(4) The competent authority may, at the expense of the organizer, commission a stateapproved auditor or require the organizer to commission such an auditor, so that an expert
opinion on the proper planning or implementation of the lottery, in particular on the
appropriateness of the costs of the lottery, is prepared and submitted to the authority. The
costs of the expert opinion are costs of the lottery.

§ 16 Appropriation of net income
(1) The net proceeds of the event must be used promptly for the purpose specified in the
permit.
(2) If the organizer intends to use the net proceeds for a purpose other than the charitable,
ecclesiastical or benevolent purpose specified in the permit, or if the purpose cannot be
realized or cannot be realized in a timely manner, the organizer must notify the competent
authority immediately. After hearing the organizer, the authority may redefine the purpose of
use.
(3) An appropriate share of the net proceeds shall be used in the country in which the lottery
is organized.

§ 17 Form and content of the permit
The permit shall be issued in writing. It shall specify in particular
1. the organizer and, in the case of § 14 paragraph 2, the third party,
2. The type, location or area, and start and duration of the event,
3. the purpose for which the net income is to be used, the manner in which the use is to be
proven, and the time at which the proof is to be provided,
4. the game plan and
5. the form of distribution.

39

§ 18 Small lotteries
The states may deviate from the provisions of the Interstate Treaty for lotteries in which
1. the sum of the fees to be paid does not exceed the amount of 40,000 euros,
2. the net proceeds are used exclusively and directly for charitable, ecclesiastical or
benevolent purposes, and
3. the net income and the total profit each account for at least 25 percent of the fees.

Section Four Commercial
Gambling Brokerage

§ 19 Commercial gambling brokerage
(1) In addition to §§ 4 to 8d and without prejudice to other statutory provisions, the following
requirements shall apply to the activities of commercial gaming brokers:
1. The commercial gaming broker must forward at least two-thirds of the amounts
collected from players for participation in the game to the organizer. He must have this
confirmed by an agent qualified to independently exercise a legal or tax consulting
profession for submission to the licensing authority. Prior to the conclusion of the
contract, he shall inform the players clearly and comprehensibly in text form of the
amount to be forwarded to the organizer for participation in the game and shall inform
them of the organizer immediately after the brokerage of the gaming order.
2. Commercial gaming brokers and third parties commissioned by them or the prospective
players within the meaning of § 3 paragraph 8 are obliged to disclose the brokerage to
the organizer each time they participate in a game.
3. Commercial gaming brokers are obliged to ensure that, upon conclusion of the
contract, a trustee qualified to independently exercise a legal or tax consulting
profession is commissioned with the safekeeping of the gaming receipts and the
assertion of the winnings claim against the organizer. Upon conclusion of the contract,
the player shall be granted the right to inspect the game receipts that have been
brokered on his behalf. If a claim to winnings is not asserted by the player to the trustee
within a period of three months, the amount of the winnings shall be transferred to the
organizer.
(2) If commercial gaming brokers operate in all or several countries, the permits pursuant to
§ 4 (1) sentence 1 and (4) sentence 1 shall be bundled by the central

40

competent authority. § Section 9a (2) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(3) § Section 4 (6) shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Section Five: Special
Provisions
§ 20 Casinos
In order to achieve the objectives of § 1, the number of casinos in the Länder shall be limited.

§ 21 Sports betting
(1) Sports betting may be allowed as combination bets or single bets on the outcome of
sports events or sections of sports events (outcome bets) as well as on individual events
during the sports event or on a combination of such events (event bets).
(1a) The design of sports betting may not run counter to the objectives of § 1. Sports betting
on sports events in which minors are exclusively or predominantly involved shall be
prohibited, unless such events are major national or international sports events. The same
applies to sports events in which exclusively or predominantly amateurs participate. Sports
betting that is susceptible to manipulation to a considerable extent or that jeopardizes the
integrity of the sporting competition is not permitted; this applies in particular to events that a
participant in a sporting event can bring about arbitrarily. Sports betting on the occurrence of
conduct in violation of the rules or the sanctioning of conduct in violation or alleged violation
of the rules is inadmissible.
(2) Sports betting may not be brokered in a building or complex of buildings in which an
arcade or casino is located.
(3) The organization, brokering and proprietary distribution of sports betting must be
organizationally, legally, economically and in terms of personnel separate from the
organization of sports events and the operation of facilities in which sports events take place.
Participants who have a direct or indirect influence on the outcome of a betting event, as well
as third parties commissioned by these persons, may neither place sports bets on the
outcome or course of the sports event nor promote sports betting by others. The organizers
of sports betting are obliged to participate in an independent early warning system, which
serves to avert manipulation of the sporting competition and is suitable for identifying such
manipulation at an early stage. The organizers shall inform the authorities immediately of any
anomalies, cooperate in the clarification and provide available information. The authorities
responsible for issuing the

41

Permission Competent authority may require further appropriate measures to prevent betting
manipulation.
(4) The linking of the broadcasting of sports events in radio and telemedia with the
organization or brokering of sports betting is not permitted. During the ongoing sporting
event, only bets may be placed that are
1. Betting on the final result or
2. Betting on the next goal, set, or similar component of a final score in sports where only
a small total number of these events regularly occur in the course of the sporting event,
especially in soccer, field hockey, ice hockey, or volleyball,
are.
(5) Sports bets may only be offered if they have previously been permitted by the competent
authority in terms of type and design. Permission to offer a bet is granted upon application. In
the permit, the competent authority may refer to a list of permitted bets published on the
authority's website. Permission to offer further bets shall be deemed to have been granted for
bets that are already included in the list pursuant to sentence 3, if the organizer has notified
the competent authority of the intention to offer these bets and the authority has not objected
within two weeks. The permission to offer a bet may be revoked unless it would have to be
granted again at the time of revocation. The permission pursuant to sentence 4 shall lapse if
the bet concerned is removed from the list pursuant to sentence 3. Organizers of sports
betting shall be obliged to review the list pursuant to sentence 3 on a regular basis, at least
once a month.
(6) Organizers of sports betting and organizers of sports events may process names and
dates of birth of the participants in the competition within the meaning of Article 3(6) of the
Council of Europe Convention against Manipulation of Sports Competitions of 18 September
2014 for the purpose of monitoring the prohibition in paragraph 3 sentence 2 and, in doing
so, may also transmit them to each other and to the competent gambling supervisory
authority. The personal data shall be processed separately from other data and deleted
immediately insofar as they are no longer required for the control of the betting prohibition.
(7) A license for the brokerage of sports betting on the Internet may only be granted subject
to the requirements of Section 4a (1) (1) (a), (b) and (d), (2) (a) and (c) and (3) (b) to (e).
Sections 4b, 4c (1) and (2) as well as
§ 4d are applicable accordingly.

42

§ 21a Betting agencies
(1) The states limit the number of betting agencies to achieve the goals of the
§ 1. the brokerage of sports betting in these places shall require a permit pursuant to § 4 (1)
sentence 1; § 29 (2) sentence 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(2) The stationary distribution and brokerage of sports betting outside betting shops is
prohibited.
(3) Only bets of one organizer may be distributed or brokered in a betting agency.
(4) If the organizer whose sports bets are distributed or brokered in the betting exchange or
the intermediary also offers sports bets on the Internet and if a gaming account pursuant to
Section 6a has been set up for a player with this organizer or intermediary, the player's bets
placed in betting exchanges shall be recorded in his gaming account. Payments made for
bets placed in the betting intermediary shall not be recorded under the inter- provider deposit
limit pursuant to Section 6c (1) unless the deposits or winnings from sports bets placed in the
sports betting intermediary are credited to the gaming account pursuant to Section 6a and
can be used as wagers for games of chance on the Internet. Organizers and intermediaries
shall ensure this by means of suitable technical measures.
(5) The details of betting agencies are governed by the implementing regulations of the federal
states.

§ 22 Lotteries with scheduled jackpot; instant lotteries
(1) The amount of scheduled jackpots shall be limited in the permit in order to achieve the
objectives of § 1. Lotteries with scheduled jackpots may not be organized more frequently
than twice a week. The organization of lotteries with scheduled jackpots is also permitted in
cooperation with other lottery organizers on a cross-border basis. The effects on the
population are to be evaluated by means of an accompanying scientific study.
(2) In order to achieve the objectives of § 1, the permit shall contain limiting provisions on the
type and structure of lotteries, for example on maximum prize amounts and prize schedules,
on sales opportunities and on advertising opportunities.

§ 22a Virtual slot machine games
(1) The design of virtual slot machines may not run counter to the objectives of § 1. Holders
of a permit for the operation of virtual slot machine games may not

43

offer a virtual slot machine game only if this has previously been permitted by the competent
authority upon their application. A version of the game shall be made available to the
authority for the purpose of reviewing the granting of permission. Significant changes to the
virtual slot machine game after the granting of a permit pursuant to sentence 2 require the
permission of the competent authority. The permit pursuant to sentence 2 may be revoked at
any time, unless it would have to be granted again at the time of revocation. Virtual slot
machine games that are not permitted pursuant to sentence 2 are unauthorized games of
chance.
(2) Virtual machine games that correspond to conventional table games with bankers
organized in casinos, in particular roulette, blackjack or baccarat, are not permitted.
(3) The winning prospects must be random and equal chances must be opened for each
player. The rules of the game and the prize schedule must be easily accessible and
described in a way that is easy for the player to understand. The probability of winning the
maximum prize as well as the average payout per euro wagered must be displayed to the
player in a recognizable manner. The display must take place where the wager can be made.
(4) A virtual slot machine game may only begin as a result of a corresponding declaration by
the player, which may only be made after the previous game has ended. In particular,
program sequences that automatically start another game after the previous game has
ended and declarations by a player to participate in several games in succession are not
permitted.
(5) Bets and winnings may only be made in euros and cents. The conversion of monetary
amounts into other currencies, points or other units before, during or after the game or as a
result of the game is not permitted.
(6) A game must last at least five seconds on average. A game begins with the declaration
within the meaning of paragraph 4, sentence 1 and ends with the display of the result.
(7) The stake may not exceed one euro per game. In order to achieve the objectives of § 1,
the authority responsible for granting the license may adjust the maximum stake per game
pursuant to sentence 1 to changing circumstances.
(8) A win must consist of a multiple of the stake determined before the game begins. Stakes,
winnings or parts of stakes or winnings may not be accumulated for the purpose of creating
winnings for future games (jackpot prohibition).
(9) § Section 6h (7) sentences 2 and 3 shall apply subject to the proviso that the player may
not be allowed to continue participating in virtual slot machine games until five minutes after
confirmation that he/she has become aware of the notice.

44

(10) Playing more than one virtual machine game at the same time is prohibited. This also
applies to playing the same game. Permit holders must ensure this by means of suitable
technical measures. Players may only be shown one game at a time.
(11) The use of the terms "casino" or "casino games" is not permitted in connection with the
organization and distribution of virtual slot games or advertising for such games.
(12) The organization of virtual slot machine games is only permitted via the Internet. The
stationary distribution of virtual slot games is prohibited.

§ 22b Online poker
(1) Holders of a permit for the organization of online poker may only offer individual variants
of online poker play if the variant offered in each case has previously been permitted by the
competent authority upon their application. They shall notify the competent authority of the
intended rules of play. Significant changes to the rules of play after the granting of a permit
pursuant to sentence 1 shall require the permission of the competent authority. The permit
pursuant to sentence 1 may be revoked at any time, unless it would have to be granted again
at the time of revocation. Permission pursuant to sentence 1 may only be granted if the
variant does not run counter to the objectives of § 1. Variations of online poker that are not
permitted pursuant to sentence 1 are unauthorized games of chance.
(2) The permit pursuant to subsection (1) sentence 1 shall provide for content and ancillary
provisions for the operation of the variant of online poker gaming. In particular, the following
shall be specified:
1. Maximum limits for the minimum bets per hand,
2. Maximum limits on the amount of money a player may have available at a virtual table,
and
3. Maximum limits on the amount payable for participation or continued participation in an
online poker tournament.
Insofar as this serves to better achieve the objectives of § 1, further content and ancillary
provisions for the organization of variants of online poker games may be provided for in the
permit pursuant to paragraph 1 sentence 1, including subsequently.
(3) Only natural persons may play against each other. Providers must take appropriate
measures to ensure this. If natural persons use programs that play automatically in their
name, this constitutes illegal gambling for these persons.

45

(4) The assignment of a player to one of several virtual tables with the same game offer shall
be random. A selection of the table by the player is not permitted.
(5) Playing several games of online poker at the same time is prohibited. Organizers shall
ensure this by means of suitable technical measures. The authority responsible for issuing
the permit may allow simultaneous play at up to four virtual tables in order to better achieve
the objectives of § 1.

§ 22c Online casino games
(1) Countries can regulate online casino games for their territory on a statutory basis
1. itself, by a legal entity under public law or by a company under private law in which
legal entities under public law directly or indirectly hold a significant interest, or
2. grant one, but not more than as many licenses for casinos within the meaning of Section
20 as could be granted under the respective casino law of the Land as of January 17,
2020.
Concessions pursuant to sentence 1 no. 2 shall be limited in time.
(2) On the basis of an administrative agreement, a joint event or the event by an organizer
pursuant to paragraph 1 sentence 1 number 1 of another country is possible. On a statutory
basis, countries may grant joint concessions for their territories pursuant to paragraph 1,
sentence 1, number 2; in this case, the number of concessions shall be limited to the total
number of concessions permitted in the cooperating countries.
(3) Concessions shall be revoked if the concessionaire fails to comply with the limitation to
the territory of the grantors under paragraph 1 or 2.
(4) The audiovisual or purely visual transmission of slot machine games from a casino or
from gaming arcades or other locations in which gaming devices within the meaning of
Section 33c (1) sentence 1 of the Industrial Code are set up or other games within the
meaning of Section 33d (1) sentence 1 of the Industrial Code are organized, and participation
therein via the Internet are prohibited.
(5) The Länder shall regulate the details in provisions under Land law.

46

Section Six Data Protection

§ Section 23 Blocking file, data processing
(1) The blocking file, which is maintained centrally by the competent authority, is used to
process the data required for blocking. The following data may be processed:
1. Surnames, first names, maiden names,
2. Aliases, false names used,
3. Date of birth,
4. Birthplace,
5. Address,
6. Photographs,
7. Reason for the lock,
8. Duration of the lock and
9. Reporting entity.
In addition, the documents that led to the blocking may be processed.
(2) The stored data shall be transmitted to the extent required to the bodies responsible for
monitoring gambling bans. The data may also be transmitted by automated retrieval
procedures.
(3) The transmission of statistical query and access data for the purpose of usage
monitoring by the competent authority is permitted.
(4) Information provided and accesses in the electronic system must be logged.
(5) The data must be deleted six years after the lock expires.
(6) The controller within the meaning of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to
the processing of personal data, on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive
95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1, L 314, 22.11.2016,
p. 72) of the personal data of blocked players is the person who entered the data. In the case
of Section 8a (7) sentence 2, this shall be the authority responsible for maintaining the
banned player file. If the authority responsible for maintaining the blacklist file transfers the
allocation of blacklists to the legal successor pursuant to Section 8a (7) sentence 2, the legal
successor shall also be the responsible party within the meaning of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 .
(7) The possibility of requesting information from the authority responsible for maintaining the
blocking file
47

shall remain unaffected, without prejudice to the data subject's right of access pursuant to
Article 15 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

Section Seven Gambling
Halls
§ 24 Permits
(1) Notwithstanding any other licensing requirements, the establishment and operation of an
amusement arcade shall require a permit pursuant to this state compact.
(2) The permit shall be refused if the establishment and operation of an amusement arcade
contravene the objectives of § 1. It shall be granted in writing and shall be limited in time. The
permit may, also subsequently, be subject to ancillary provisions.
(3) Further details are governed by the implementing regulations of the federal states.

§ Section 25 Restrictions on amusement arcades; prohibition on multiple licenses.
(1) A minimum distance must be maintained between gambling halls. Further details are
regulated by the implementing regulations of the federal states.
(2) The issuance of a permit for a gaming hall that is structurally connected to other gaming
halls, in particular in a joint building or building complex, is excluded.
(3) The states may limit the number of permits to be issued in a municipality.

§ Section 26 Requirements for the Design and Operation of Gaming Halls
(1) The external design of the gaming hall must not be used to advertise gaming operations
or the games offered in the gaming hall, or to create an additional incentive for gaming
operations by means of a particularly conspicuous design.
(2) In order to ensure that the objectives of Section 1 are met, the Länder shall stipulate
closed hours for gaming arcades which shall not be less than three hours.

Eighth section horse
betting
§ 27 Horse betting

48

(1) The stationary organization and brokerage of horse betting may only take place with a
permit in accordance with the Racing Betting and Lotteries Act. § Section 4 (2) sentence 1
and (3) are applicable.
(2) The organizing and brokering of horserace betting on the Internet permitted under
paragraph 1 in accordance with § 4 paragraph 4 and 5 may be permitted in the uniform
procedure of the Länder. §§ Sections 4b (1) sentences 1 to 3 and sentence 4 numbers 2, 3,
5, 6 and 7, (2) and (3) and Sections 4c and 4d shall apply mutatis mutandis. Notwithstanding
§ 4c (3), sentences 2 and 3, the security fee shall be set by the authority responsible for
granting the license at the amount of the average monthly turnover to be expected, up to a
maximum of 50 million euros. Evidence and documents from another Member State of the
European Union or another State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area
shall be deemed equivalent to domestic evidence and documents if they show that the
requirements of sentences 1 and 2 and paragraph 4 are met. The documents shall be
submitted at the expense of the applicant as a certified copy and a certified German
translation.
(3) In the licensing procedure pursuant to paragraph 2, the types of horserace betting to be
offered shall be specified. The license may stipulate that significant changes to the offer must
be approved by the licensing authority. Furthermore, it may be stipulated that new types of
horserace betting may be offered for the first time after expiry of a waiting period to be
specified in the license after receipt of a notification by the licensing authority.
(4) Permission according to paragraph 2 may only be granted if
1. the applicant and the responsible persons appointed by the applicant possess the
reliability and expertise required for the organization of public games of chance and
guarantee that the event is carried out properly and in a manner that is comprehensible
to the players and the licensing authority; in the case of legal entities and partnerships,
all persons authorized to represent the entity must possess the requirements of reliability
and expertise,
2. neither the applicant itself nor an enterprise affiliated with it nor a person controlling the
applicant nor a person controlled by the person controlling the applicant organizes or
brokers unauthorized games of chance,
3. the transparency of the operation is ensured,
4. the applicant has a registered office in a member state of the European Union or a state
party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area,
5. the applicant, if he/she does not have a registered office in Germany, notifies the
competent authority of an authorized recipient and representative in Germany who is
reliable as defined in point 1,
49

6. an Internet domain ".de" is established at the top level for offers on the Internet,
7. the applicant sets up its own accounting system for all gaming and payment transactions
in Germany and processes gaming-related payment transactions via an account in
Germany or at a credit institution domiciled in a Member State of the European Union,
and
8. the applicant provides interfaces for checking all game operations in real time.

Ninth Section Joint Gaming
Authority of the Federal States

§ 27a Establishment, legal form, name, registered office, applicable law, official seal
(1) The federal states shall establish a public law institution with legal capacity (Anstalt) with
its registered office in Saxony-Anhalt (the "Home State") to perform the tasks of gaming
supervision, in particular in the area of the Internet, with effect from July 1, 2021. The
establishment shall be deemed to be an institution of the state in which its registered office is
located.
(2) The institution bears the name "Joint Gaming Authority of the Federal States".
(3) The establishment and operation of the Establishment shall be governed by the law of the
State in which the Establishment has its registered office, unless otherwise provided for in
this Interstate Treaty.
(4) Unless otherwise provided for in this Interstate Treaty, the law of the Land in which the
registered office is situated shall apply to the conduct of administrative proceedings and to
administrative enforcement. For the application of the law of the Land in which its seat is
located, the Establishment shall at the same time be deemed to be its institution.
(5) The establishment has a official seal.

§ 27b Articles of Association
The Establishment shall adopt Articles of Association in accordance with the provisions of this
Interstate Treaty. The statutes and any amendments thereto shall be published in the official
gazette of the state in which the establishment is located.

§ Section 27c Sponsorship and Financing of the Establishment
(1) The institution's sponsors are the Länder (sponsoring Länder). They are also users of the
Establishment.
50

(2) The sponsoring states undertake to ensure adequate financing of the institution.

51

(3) Each year, the sponsoring states shall provide the financial resources provided for in the
confirmed business plan on a pro rata basis in accordance with the Königstein Key as
modified for the Establishment (financing contributions). The modified Königstein Key for the
Establishment is the Königstein Key published in the Federal Gazette, converted to the
sponsoring states and rounded to five decimal places. The percentage share shown in the
Federal Gazette for each sponsoring state is divided by the sum of the percentage shares of
all sponsoring states and then multiplied by 100 percent. The current Königsteiner Key, as
modified for the institution, applies to all payments.
(4) For the fiscal year 2021, the Establishment shall receive EUR 3 million, which shall be
borne by the sponsoring states in accordance with the Königstein Key modified for the
Establishment pursuant to paragraph 3, sentences 2 to 4, and shall be made available to the
Establishment by September 30, 2021.
(5) The Establishment is managed in accordance with commercial principles and economic
aspects, taking into account the special features resulting from the tasks of the
Establishment. The accounting system of the Establishment is based on the principles of
double-entry bookkeeping (state double-entry accounting). The financial year is the calendar
year. Further details of budgetary and economic management are set out in the Articles of
Association.
(6) The details of the financing will be regulated in an administrative agreement.

§ 27d Liability
The sponsoring states shall be jointly and severally liable for the liabilities of the
Establishment without limitation if and to the extent that the liabilities cannot be met from the
assets of the Establishment. Internally, the sponsoring states shall be liable in proportion to
their shares in accordance with the modified Königstein Key for the Establishment pursuant
to Section 27c (3) sentences 2 to 4.

§ Section 27e Tasks of the Establishment
(1) The Establishment shall act as a licensing and supervisory authority for cross-border
gambling services, in particular on the Internet, within the scope of its responsibilities under
this Interstate Treaty.
(2) The establishment monitors the developments of the gambling market and the
researches related to gambling.
(3) The Establishment shall promote scientific research in connection with gambling. For this
purpose, the Establishment may commission studies and expert opinions.
52

(4) The establishment supports the states in the cooperation of their gambling supervisory
authorities and in the cooperation of the gambling supervisory authorities of the states with
those of other states.

§ Section 27f Responsibilities of the Establishment
(1) The Establishment shall be responsible for the permits to be issued with effect for all
Länder pursuant to Section 9a (1).
(2) The Establishment shall be the uniformly competent authority in the cases referred to in
Section 9a (3).
(3) It shall be the competent authority pursuant to Section 9(8).
(4) The establishment is also the competent authority for
1. the maintenance of the player blocking file pursuant to sections 8a to 8d and 23,
2. the maintenance of the limit file pursuant to Section 6c (4) (including the authorization
to set a different maximum amount for the deposit limit in the gambling license pursuant
to Section 6c (1) sentence 3 and the setting of binding framework regulations on the
conditions for the authorization to set a different maximum amount for the deposit limit
pursuant to Section 6c (1) sentence 5),
3. the maintenance of the file to prevent parallel play on the Internet by multiple providers
pursuant to § 6h (2), and
4. the adjustment of the maximum stake per game pursuant to § 22a (7) sentence 2.
(5) The Establishment shall be the central competent authority pursuant to Section 19(2).

§ 27g Organs
The organs of the Establishment are the Board of Directors and the Executive Board.

§ 27h Board of Directors
(1) Each sponsoring country sends one representative to the Administrative Board.
Representatives may be heads of office or state secretaries of the ministry responsible for
gaming supervision in the sponsoring country. They may only be represented by other heads
of office or state secretaries of the same sponsoring state. The delegation pursuant to
sentence 1 may be revoked at any time. It shall also terminate without revocation if the
requirement of sentence 2 ceases to apply. In the cases referred to in sentences 4 and 5, a
new representative shall be appointed without delay.

53

(2) The chairmanship of the Administrative Board rotates annually in alphabetical order of the
sponsoring countries, starting with the country in which the Establishment has its registered
office. The chairperson prepares the meetings of the Board of Directors.
(3) The Board of Directors shall adopt its own rules of procedure. It decides on the
fundamental matters of the institution, in particular on
1.

the statutes of the establishment,

2.

by October 31 on the business plan for the following year,

3.

the appointment to and dismissal from the Executive Board as well as the hiring and
dismissal of Executive Board members,

4.

the discharge of the members of the Board of Management,

5.

the hiring, promotion and dismissal of employees from a management level to be
specified in the Articles of Association,

6.

the appointment of the auditor and of auditors for extraordinary audits, the adoption of
the annual financial statements and the approval of the management report as well as
the appropriation of the annual result,

7.

general

agreements

and

measures

to

regulate

the

employment,

service,

remuneration and pension relationships of employees within the framework of
statutory and collective bargaining requirements,
8.

the taking out of loans,

9.

the conduct of legal disputes the amount in dispute of which exceeds a limit to be
determined in the Articles of Association,

10. the initiation of the award of contracts the amount of which in individual cases
exceeds a limit to be specified in the Articles of Association, and
11. the conclusion of contracts with a term of more than two years, insofar as the
obligation of the institution in an individual case exceeds a limit to be specified in the
Articles of Association, and the conclusion of contracts with a term of more than five
years.
(4) The Board of Directors adopts decision-making guidelines that are binding on the
Executive Board in key matters. It may adopt further decision-making guidelines and
directives in individual cases. The representative of each sponsoring country may apply for
the resolution. The Board of Management is obliged to decide on the request within a
reasonable period of time. Decisions in accordance with sentences 1 and 2 must be justified.
The main factual and legal reasons shall be stated in the statement of reasons.

54

(5) The Board of Directors supervises the Executive Board. The Executive Board is obliged
to provide information to the Board of Directors, also at the request of a representative of a
sponsoring country. Details are to be specified in the Articles of Association.
(6) The Board of Directors shall pass resolutions pursuant to paragraph 3 sentence 2 numbers
1 and 2 unanimously. The other resolutions shall require a majority of two thirds of the
members of the Administrative Board. Each representative of a sponsoring country shall
have one vote.
(7) The Administrative Board is the supreme service authority for the civil servants working at
the Establishment. It appoints the members of the Management Board and exercises the
rights and duties of the Establishment as employer vis-à-vis the members of the
Management Board in the employment relationship. The Administrative Board may transfer
its responsibilities as the supreme service authority in whole or in part to the Executive
Board.
(8) Further details on the Board of Directors are set out in the Articles of Association.

§ Section 27i Executive Board
(1) The Management Board consists of at least two members. It manages the institution and
represents it in and out of court. The Management Board is the supervisor and superior of
the civil servants working at the Establishment. It shall perform the duties of the body
responsible for appointments and the rights and duties of the Establishment as an employer
vis-à-vis the employees of the Establishment, insofar as they are not assigned to the
Administrative Board by this Interstate Treaty.
(2) The Executive Board is bound by the resolutions of the Board of Directors. The Executive
Board shall report to the Board of Directors on current matters and procedures. It may
propose that the Board of Directors adopt a decision-making guideline.
(3) The Executive Board is appointed by the Board of Directors for a maximum term of five
years. Reappointments are possible. Premature dismissal is permissible.
(4) The Executive Board is entitled to attend the meetings of the Board of Directors in an
advisory capacity unless the Board of Directors decides otherwise. It is obliged to attend
meetings of the Board of Directors if the Board of Directors so determines in advance.
(5) Further details on the Executive Board are governed by the Articles of Association.

§ Section 27j Employability, Recruitment of Personnel
(1) The Establishment may employ staff and have civil servants. The sponsoring Länder may
second employees to the Establishment and second or transfer civil servants. The
55

Establishment shall be the employer within the meaning of the state law of the state in which
it is located. The

56

The legal relationships of the civil servants of the Establishment shall be governed by the
Civil Servant Status Act and the civil servant law provisions of the state in which the
Establishment has its registered office, unless otherwise provided for in the provisions of this
Interstate Treaty. The employees and trainees of the Establishment shall be subject to the
collective bargaining agreement for the public service of the Länder or the collective
bargaining agreement for trainees of the Länder in training occupations under the Vocational
Training Act, including the collective bargaining agreements supplementing, amending and
replacing these collective bargaining agreements, in the version applicable in the State in
which the Establishment has its registered office. A special personal allowance may be
granted to cover staffing requirements and to retain qualified specialists in areas which are of
particular importance for the fulfillment of the institution's purpose and in which there is a
particular shortage of specialists. The allowance may be limited in time. It may also be
revoked as a temporary allowance. If the collective agreement for the public service of the
federal states is not applicable in the country in which the Establishment has its registered
office, the relevant provisions of the collective agreement applicable to the employees of the
federal state in question shall apply accordingly.
(2) The sponsoring Länder shall be obliged to second competent staff of their own to the
establishment if the latter has demonstrably been unable to recruit sufficient staff of its own.
Any such use by the sponsoring Länder shall require a resolution of the Board of
Administration, which shall assess the burden on the sponsoring Länder, taking particular
account of previous staff contributions and the Königstein Key modified in accordance with
section 27c(3) sentences 2 to 4.
(3) The sharing of pension costs between the sponsoring states and the Establishment is
governed by the State Treaty on the Sharing of Pension Costs of September 5, 2010 (BGBl. I
p. 1290, 1404), as amended. In the case of secondments pursuant to Section 14 of the Civil
Servant Status Act, the levying of a pension supplement amounting to 30 percent of the
respective pensionable remuneration in accordance with the law of the seconding employer
shall also be agreed as part of the reimbursement of personnel costs for civil servants. This
shall not apply in the case of secondments which are made with the aim of transfer or which
result in a transfer if the pension burden is shared in accordance with the Pension Burden
State Treaty.
(4) Immediately after its establishment, the Establishment shall create the conditions for the
conclusion of a participation agreement with the Versorgungsanstalt des Bundes und der
Länder. If the participation agreement is not concluded, the Establishment shall ensure the
employees' legal entitlement to a company pension in accordance with Section 25 of the
collective bargaining agreement for the public service of the Länder and Section 17 of the
collective bargaining agreement for trainees of the Länder in training occupations under the
Vocational Training Act.
57

§ 27k Participations
(1) With the consent of the Board of Administration, the Establishment may, in the
performance of its administrative tasks, including the associated automated processing of
personal data and the decision on legal remedies, avail itself in whole or in part of the
cooperation of authorities or institutions of the host state or of another sponsoring state by
way of administrative agreements against reimbursement of the administrative costs. In this
case, the consent of the Administrative Board shall require the consent of the representative
of the host state or of the other sponsoring state on the Administrative Board.
(2) Paragraph 1 applies in particular to the following administrative tasks:
1. the tasks in the field of remuneration and other cash benefits in accordance with the law
on remuneration of the country of domicile, including allowances in cases of illness,
nursing care and birth, as well as pensions in accordance with the law on pensions for
civil servants of the country of domicile,
2. the powers of the establishment as an employer with regard to the remuneration of
employees and persons employed for training (trainees),
3. the calculation and arrangement of the travel allowance, separation allowance and
relocation allowance,
4. the implementation of procurements and award procedures,
5. the implementation of training events as well as
6. the maintenance of the files referred to in Section 27f(4).
(3) Each Land may, with the unanimous consent of the Administrative Board, make use of
the Establishment for the performance of administrative tasks in connection with this
Interstate Treaty against reimbursement of administrative costs. This shall apply in particular
to the monitoring and evaluation of the data collected by the technical system pursuant to
Section 6i (2).

§ 27l Legal and technical supervision
(1) The supreme state authority responsible for gaming supervision in the state in which the
establishment has its registered office shall exercise legal supervision over the establishment
in consultation with the supreme state authorities responsible for gaming supervision in the
other sponsoring states, unless urgency requires immediate intervention. In this case, the
supreme state authorities of the other sponsoring states responsible for the supervision of
gaming shall be informed without delay.
(2) In the performance of its duties pursuant to § 27e, the Establishment shall be subject to
the supervision of the supreme state authority responsible for the supervision of gaming in
the state in which its registered office is located, unless the Administrative Board exercises
its powers pursuant to § 27h (4).
58

(3) Any supreme gaming supervisory authority of a Land may request the supreme gaming
supervisory authority of the Land in which its seat is located to review the supervisory
measures pursuant to paragraph 2; the result of the review shall be communicated in text
form within four weeks.

§ 27m Financial control
The budgetary and economic management of the Establishment is subject to audit by the audit
offices of the sponsoring states.

§ 27n Applicable data protection law
The processing of personal data by the Establishment shall be governed by the data protection
regulations applicable in the country in which the Establishment has its registered office.

§ 27o Information security
(1) The data processing must be organized in such a way that the separation of the data
according to the respective purposes pursued and according to the different persons
concerned is possible during the processing, the knowledge in the context of the task
fulfillment and the inspection.
(2) The institution shall appoint an official IT security officer.

§ 27p Transitional provisions
(1) In derogation of § 27f (1) and (5), the following shall apply
1. until December 31, 2022, the competent authority for the granting of licenses pursuant
to § 9a (1) No. 1 shall be the competent gambling supervisory authority of the state in
whose territory the establishment pursuant to § 10 (3) has its registered office (Free
and Hanseatic City of Hamburg),
2. until December 31, 2022, the competent authority for the granting of licenses pursuant
to Section 9a (1) no. 2 shall be the competent gaming supervisory authority of the State
of Baden- Württemberg,
3. Until December 31, 2022, the competent authority for the granting of licenses pursuant
to Section 9a (1) No. 3, insofar as this relates to licenses for the brokerage of sports
betting on the Internet, the organization of sports betting and the license pursuant to
Section 27 (2), shall be the competent gambling supervisory authority of the State of
Hesse and otherwise the competent gambling supervisory authority of the State of
59

Saxony-Anhalt,

60

4. until December 31, 2022, the competent authority for the granting of licenses pursuant
to Section 9a (1) no. 4 shall be the competent gambling supervisory authority of the
State of Rhineland-Palatinate, and
5. until December 31, 2022, the competent authority for the granting of licenses pursuant
to Section 19 (2) shall be the competent gaming supervisory authority of the State of
Lower Saxony.
(2) By way of derogation from Section 27f (2), until June 30, 2022, the competent gaming
supervisory authority of the State of Lower Saxony shall be the uniform competent authority
in cases under Section 9a (3) no. 1 in conjunction with Section 9 (1) sentence 3 no. 4, and
the competent gaming supervisory authorities of the State of Saxony-Anhalt shall be the
uniform competent authority for the other cases under Section 9a (3).
(3) By way of derogation from Section 27f (3), until December 31, 2022, the competent
authority under
§ Section 9 (8) the competent gaming supervisory authority of the State of Saxony-Anhalt.
(4) By way of derogation from Section 27f (4), until December 31, 2022, the competent
authority for
1. the maintenance of the player blocking file pursuant to §§ 8a to 8d, 23 the competent
gambling supervisory authority of the State of Hesse,
2. the competent gaming supervisory authority of the State of Saxony-Anhalt shall be
responsible for maintaining the limit file pursuant to Section 6c (4) and
3. the competent gaming supervisory authority of the State of Saxony-Anhalt shall be
responsible for maintaining the file to prevent parallel gaming on the Internet in the
case of several providers pursuant to Section 6h (2).
(5) The authorities responsible under paragraphs 1 to 4 shall provide the Establishment with
all documents and information necessary for the performance of the tasks of the
Establishment in due time before the transfer of responsibility to the Establishment.
(6) For the purpose of fulfilling the duties performed on a uniform basis by the Länder
pursuant to subsections 1 to 4, the Gaming College of the Länder shall exist until December
31, 2022. In this context, the Gaming Supervisory Board serves to implement the joint
supervision of the respective supreme gaming supervisory authorities by the federal states.
(7) The gambling supervisory board of the federal states consists of 16 members. Each state
appoints one member through its supreme gaming supervisory authority, as well as his or her
deputy in the event that he or she is prevented from attending. The Gaming Supervisory
Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure by mutual agreement. § Section 9 (6) shall apply
mutatis mutandis.
(8) The federal states shall set up an office in the State of Hesse for the Gaming Board. The
61

financing of the Glücksspielkollegium and the office as well as the distribution of income from
administrative fees pursuant to Section 9a (4) shall be governed by an administrative
agreement between the states.

62

(9) The Gaming Board shall adopt its resolutions by a majority of at least two-thirds of the
votes of its members. Reasons shall be given for the resolutions. The main factual and legal
reasons shall be stated in the statement of reasons. The resolutions shall be binding on the
authorities responsible under paragraphs 1 to 3 and on the administrative office; they shall
implement the resolutions within the time limit set by the Gaming Board. A resolution of the
Gaming Board shall be adopted within three months of receipt of the matter by the
Administrative Office.
(10) § Section 6c (1) sentence 3 (Permission to set a different maximum amount for the
deposit limit in the gambling license) and Section 22a (7) sentence 2 (Adjustment of the
maximum stake per game) shall not apply until December 31, 2022; paragraph 11 shall apply
mutatis mutandis. During this period, Section 6c (1) sentence 4 (Permission to set a different
maximum amount for the deposit limit for providers of online casino games) shall apply
subject to the proviso that, notwithstanding Section 6c (1) sentence 5 and Section 27f (4)
number 2, the competent authority pursuant to (4) number 2 shall be responsible for setting
binding framework regulations in agreement with the competent gaming supervisory
authorities of the other contracting states. During this period, the competent authority
pursuant to subsection 1(3) may also allow organizers of sports betting and horserace betting
on the Internet to make exceptions in individual cases from the legal consequence of Section
6c(1)(8) in order to better achieve the objectives of Section 1; a limit shall be provided for.
(11) If this Interstate Treaty does not enter into force on July 1, 2021 in one of the states
specified in paragraphs 1 to 4, the competent gaming supervisory authority of the state in
which the Interstate Treaty is effective shall replace the competent gaming supervisory
authority of the state in which the Interstate Treaty is not applicable.
(12) The Establishment may, by unanimous resolution of the Board of Directors, transfer
tasks under paragraphs 1 to 3 to the competent gambling supervisory authority of the country
referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3 for a period of up to two years after the dates referred to in
paragraphs 1 to 3, to be specified in the resolution, if the Board of Directors has determined
by unanimous resolution that the Establishment is not yet in a position to properly perform
the task on the dates referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3.

Tenth section
Transitional and final provisions; entry into force and termination

§ 28 Regulations of the countries
(1) The Länder shall enact the provisions necessary for the implementation of this Interstate
Treaty. They may impose further requirements, in particular with regard to the
63

determine the conditions for organizing and brokering games of chance. In their
implementing laws, they may also provide that violations of the provisions of this Interstate
Treaty shall be punishable by fines or penalties.
(2) By way of derogation from the provisions of this Interstate Treaty, the Länder may, in
their implementing provisions, permit traditional forms of gambling tournaments outside
casinos which are not organized on a commercial basis with the intention of making a profit
and only occasionally and in which the stakes per player do not exceed 20 euros and the
sum of the cash or non-cash prizes offered does not exceed 500 euros. This does not apply
to forms of gambling offered in casinos.

§ 28a Administrative Offences
(1) It is a misdemeanor to intentionally or negligently
1. organizes or brokers a game of chance without a permit in contravention of Section 4
(1) sentence 1,
2. contrary to § 4 (1) sentence 2 or 3, participates in payments in connection with
unauthorized gambling,
3. allows a minor to participate in gambling in contravention of § 4 Paragraph 3
Sentence 2 or 3,
4. organizes, brokers or distributes public games of chance on the Internet without
authorization in contravention of Section 4 (4) sentence 1 or sentence 2,
5. violates the credit prohibition in § 4 (5) No. 2,
6. contrary to Section 4d (1), fails to notify immediately of a change in a circumstance
relevant to the granting of the permit,
7. advertises via telecommunications equipment in contravention of Section 5 (1)
sentence 4,
8. directs advertising to minors in contravention of Section 5 (2) Sentence 4,
9. advertises virtual slot machine games, online poker and online casino games on the
radio and Internet in contravention of Section 5 (3) sentence 1,
10. contrary to § 5 Paragraph 3 Sentence 2, advertises sports betting on this sporting
event directly before or during a live broadcast,
11. advertises in sports facilities contrary to § 5 paragraph 4,
12. contrary to § 5 paragraph 5 sentence 2, personally addresses advertising to banned
players,
13. contrary to Section 5 (6) sentence 1, agrees on remuneration for advertising games of
chance on the Internet which is dependent on turnover, deposits or stakes,
14. contrary to § 5 Paragraph 6 Sentence 2, combines advertising for sports betting for a
sports event with live interim results of this sports event,
15. advertises or sponsors unauthorized gambling in contravention of Section 5 (7),
64

16. contrary to § 6 (2) sentence 3 number 3, 7 and 10 does not implement the social
concept,
17. contrary to § 6 paragraph 3, remunerates the executive personnel depending on the
turnover

65

or personnel from participating in gambling offered terrestrially or on the Internet,
18. contrary to § 6a (1) sentence 2, allows participation in gaming without setting up a
provider-related gaming account,
19. contrary to § 6c (1) sentence 6, allows a player to participate in a game without
setting a deposit limit that applies to all providers,
20. contrary to § 6c (1) sentence 8, allows a deposit to be made when the provider-wide
deposit limit has been exhausted,
21. allows further participation in the game in contravention of § 6c (2) sentence 2,
22. fails to transmit the required data to the limit file, or fails to transmit such data in full or
in good time, in contravention of § 6c (5) and (6),
23. contrary to § 6e (5), fails to comply with the duty to provide information,
24. allows parallel play in contravention of § 6h (1) and (3) sentence 1,
25. fails to comply with the duty to provide information in contravention of Section 6h (7),
26. contrary to Section 6i (1), fails to operate a system for the early detection of gamblers
at risk of gambling addiction or fails to update such a system as required,
27. contrary to § 6j paragraph 1, offers free entertainment without a gambling account
according to
§ 6a Paragraph 1 Sentence 1 offers or allows minors or banned players to participate,
28. contrary to § 7 (2), fails to affix a required notice on tickets, game tickets or game
receipts or fails to link to offers of assistance,
29. contrary to Section 8 (3) sentence 1, as an organizer or agent of games of chance in
which barred players are not permitted to participate, fails to identify persons willing to
play by checking an official identification document or a comparable identity check,
30. contrary to the first sentence of Section 8 (3), as an organizer or agent of games of
chance in which barred players are not permitted to participate, fails to check persons
willing to play against the barring file,
31. contrary to Section 8 (3) sentence 3, as an organizer or agent of games of chance,
fails to ensure that barred players do not participate in games of chance,
32. contrary to the first sentence of Section 8 (4), as an organizer or agent of games of
chance in which banned players are not permitted to participate, acts on a banned
player to submit an application for unblocking,
33. contrary to Section 8 (4) sentence 2, as an organizer or agent of games of chance in
which banned players are not permitted to participate, grants benefits such as
bonuses or discounts to players whose player ban has been lifted,
34. contrary to Section 8a (1), as an organizer or agent of games of chance in which
banned players are not permitted to participate, fails to ban persons who request it or
from whom it has been informed on the basis of the perception of their personnel or
on the basis of

66

know, or have reason to believe on the basis of other factual indications, that they are
at risk of gambling addiction or overindebted, that they are not meeting their financial
obligations, or that they are risking gambling stakes that are disproportionate to their
income or assets,
35. contrary to Section 8a (4), as organizer or agent, fails to enter the personal data
specified in Section 23 (1) in a blocking file,
36. contrary to Section 8a (7) sentence 2, as an obligated party pursuant to Section 8a
(1), fails to hand over all documents relating to the freeze to the agency responsible
for maintaining the freeze file in the event of the closure of a business, merger,
insolvency or the existence of other reasons which make the further storage of
documents within the meaning of Section 8a (7) sentence 1 impossible,
37. contrary to § 19 (1) number 1 sentence 1, as a commercial gaming broker, does not
pass on at least two thirds of the amounts collected from the players to the organizer,
38. contrary to Section 21 (3) sentence 2, as a party directly or indirectly influencing the
outcome of a betting event, or as a third party commissioned by such persons, places
sports bets on the outcome or course of the sports event or promotes sports betting
by others,
39. contrary to Section 21 (3) sentence 3, as an organizer of sports betting, does not
participate in an independent early warning system which serves to prevent
manipulation of sports competition and is suitable for identifying such manipulation at
an early stage,
40. contrary to Section 21 (3) sentence 4, as an organizer, fails to inform the authorities
immediately of any anomalies, to cooperate in clarifying the matter or to provide
available information,
41. contrary to Section 21 (4) sentence 1, links the broadcasting of sports events in
broadcasting and telemedia with the organization or brokerage of sports betting,
42. contrary to Section 21a (4) sentence 1, as an intermediary or organizer of sports
betting, fails to ensure that a player's bets placed in the intermediary's betting office
are recorded in his or her gaming account in accordance with Section 6a,
43. contrary to Section 21a (4) sentence 2, as an intermediary or organizer of sports
betting, fails to ensure that payments made for bets in the betting intermediary's office
are covered by the cross-provider deposit limit pursuant to Section 6c,
44. contrary to § 22a (3) sentence 2, does not provide the rules of the game and the prize
schedule in a manner that is easy to access and does not describe them in a manner
that is easy for the player to understand,
45. contrary to § 22a (4) sentence 1, does not allow a virtual slot machine game to begin
solely as a result of a corresponding declaration by the player,
46. contrary to § 22a (4), first sentence, allows the declaration to be made before the
previous match is completed,
67

47. contrary to § 22a (4) sentence 2, program sequences that were started after the expiry
of the

68

previous game independently start another game and allow declarations of a player to
participate in several games in a row,
48. contrary to § 22a (5) sentence 1, does not permit wagers and winnings in euros and
cents only,
49. contrary to § 22a (6) sentence 1, offers, organizes or brokers a game that does not
last an average of at least five seconds,
50. contrary to § 22a (7) sentence 1, offers, organizes or brokers a game in which the
stake exceeds one euro per game,
51. contrary to Section 22a (9), does not allow the player to continue participating in
virtual slot machine games until five minutes after the notice has been confirmed,
52. contrary to § 22a (10) sentence 1, allows the simultaneous play of several virtual slot
machine games,
53. contrary to Section 22a (11), in connection with the organization and distribution of
virtual slot machine games or advertising therefor, uses the terms "casino" or
"casino games" used,
54. distributes virtual slot machine games on a stationary basis in contravention of § 22a
(12) sentence 2,
55. contrary to § 22b (1) sentence 3, offers, organizes or brokers significant changes to
the rules of the game after a permit has been granted pursuant to § 22b (1) sentence
1 without the permission of the competent authority,
56. contrary to § 22b (3) sentences 1 and 2, fails to ensure that only natural persons play
against each other,
57. contrary to § 22b (4) sentence 1, fails to ensure that the assignment of a player to one
of several virtual tables with the same game offer is random, or
58. contrary to Section 22c (4), transmits slot machine games audiovisually or purely
visually.
(2) The administrative offense can be punished with a fine of up to 500,000 euros.
(3) If a misdemeanor has been committed under paragraph 1, the objects,
1. to which the administrative offense relates or
2. which have been produced by them or have been used or intended for their
commission or preparation,
be confiscated under the conditions of § 22 paragraph 2, § 23 of the Administrative Offences
Act. § Section 17 (4) of the Administrative Offences Act shall remain unaffected.
(4) The competent administrative authority within the meaning of Section 36(1)(1) of the
Administrative Offences Act shall be the authority responsible under Section 9.

69

§ 29 Transitional arrangements
(1) Permits granted to broadcasters within the meaning of Section 10(2) and (3) by June 30,
2021, and the powers equivalent thereto under state law shall continue to be valid as permits
until June 30, 2022, even if a shorter period is specified in the notice, subject to the proviso
that the provisions of this Interstate Treaty, with the exception of the permit requirement
under
§ 4 (1) sentence 1, shall apply. The regulations issued in a permit pursuant to Section 5 (3)
sentence 2 of the Interstate Treaty on Games of Chance of December 15, 2011 shall apply
during this period as content and ancillary provisions within the meaning of Section 5 (1)
sentence 3. The operators pursuant to Section 10 (2) and (3) shall obtain a new permit
pursuant to Section 4 (1) by July 1, 2022 at the latest.
(2) Paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis to organizers of lotteries pursuant to the Third
Section and intermediaries of permitted public games of chance (including lottery collectors
of class lotteries and commercial gaming intermediaries). Insofar as intermediaries are
integrated into the sales organization of an organizer, the organizer shall submit the
application for the granting of the permit pursuant to Section 4 (1) for the intermediaries
acting on its behalf.
(3) Licenses for the organization of sports betting issued before the entry into force of this
Interstate Treaty and effective on June 30, 2021 shall continue to be valid as licenses until
December 31, 2022, even if a shorter period is specified in the notice, subject to the proviso
that the provisions of this Interstate Treaty shall apply apart from the license requirement
under § 4, paragraph 1, sentence 1. Paragraph 1 sentence 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis. A
new permit shall be obtained no later than January 1, 2023.
(4) In their implementing provisions, the Länder may provide that, for gaming arcades
existing on 1 January 2020. The federal states may provide in their implementing provisions
that, for gaming arcades existing on January 1, 2020, which are located in a structural
network with other gaming arcades, a temporary permit may be granted for up to three
gaming arcades per building or building complex upon joint application of the operators, in
derogation of Section 25 (2), if at least all gaming arcades have been certified by an
accredited testing organization and the certification is repeated at regular intervals, at least
every two years, the operators have a certificate of competence acquired on the basis of
instruction with testing and the staff of the gaming arcades are specially trained. The
transitional period is to be determined by state law. Further details are governed by the
implementing regulations of the federal states.
(5) Paragraph 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis to permits for organizing horse betting on the
Internet.
(6) By way of derogation from section 21a(2), the federal states may permit bets on results to
70

b e brokered until 30 June 2024 also in points of acceptance that are integrated into the
sales organization of organizers pursuant to section 10(2); bets during the ongoing

71

sporting event are inadmissible.
(7) The licenses granted by the Ministry of the Interior of the State of Schleswig-Holstein until
the entry into force of this Interstate Treaty and effective on June 30, 2021 for the
organization and distribution of online casino games pursuant to § 4 in conjunction with §§ 19
and 20 of the German Gaming Act (Glücksspielgesetz) of §§ Sections 19 and 20 of the Act
on the Reorganization of Gambling (Gambling Act) of October 20, 2011, GVOBl.
p. 280, in conjunction with. § Section 1 of the Act on the Transitional Regulation of Online
Casino Games of June 11, 2019, GVOBl. p. 145, shall continue to apply as a permit for a
transitional period until a permit is granted under this Interstate Treaty, but no later than
December 31, 2024, subject to the proviso that the regulations contained in the permit and in
the supplementary ancillary provisions shall apply. They shall apply only to the territory of
Schleswig-Holstein. The broadcaster may not invoke this transitional arrangement if it does
not submit an application for a permit under this Interstate Treaty by July 1, 2022 at the
latest.
(8) Section 9a (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the continued validity of licenses issued in
the uniform state procedure and in the bundled procedure in accordance with (1) to (3).
(9) Notwithstanding Section 4 (4), licenses for public games of chance on the Internet for the
organization, brokerage and proprietary distribution of sports betting as well as the
organization and proprietary distribution of online casino games, virtual slot machine games
and online poker may only be granted if the player blocking file pursuant to Section 23 or the
limit file pursuant to Section 6c (4) are not yet available at the time of the decision
1. subject to a time limit until December 31, 2022 at the latest,
2. in the absence of a player blocking file, with the condition that the provider shall carry
out self-blocking and third-party blocking under the conditions of §§ 8a, 8b for all
games of chance offered by itself or by affiliated companies and shall apply the
provisions of this Interstate Treaty for players blocked in the player blocking file
pursuant to § 23 accordingly to the players blocked by itself, and
3. in the absence of the limit file, with the requirement that the provider request players
upon registration to set a monthly deposit limit in accordance with § 6c with effect for
all games of chance offered by the provider itself or affiliated companies, and apply
the provisions of this Interstate Treaty for the inter-provider deposit limit maintained in
the limit file accordingly to the deposit limit maintained with itself.

§ 30 Further regulations
(1) The competent authority may approve a lottery which, at the time of the entry into force of
this Treaty, is conducted by several organizers in all countries and in which the net proceeds
are used exclusively for the fulfillment of the purposes specified in § 10, paragraph 5,
72

notwithstanding § 12 paragraph 1 sentence 1 number 3, § 13 paragraph 2, § 14 paragraph 1
number 1
and § 15 (1) sentence 3.
(2) The net income from events in the form of profit savings must amount to at least 25
percent of the fees. The net proceeds must be used for charitable, ecclesiastical or
benevolent purposes. Permits may be granted in general.

§ Section 31 Relationship to other interstate treaty provisions governing class lotteries
Insofar as the provisions of the State Treaty between the states of Baden-Württemberg,
Bavaria, Hesse, Rhineland-Palatinate, Saxony and Thuringia on a state class lottery of May
26, 1992 (SKL State Treaty) or the provisions of the State Treaty between the states of North
Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony, Schleswig-Holstein, the Free and Hanseatic City of
Hamburg, the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen, Saarland, Berlin, Brandenburg, MecklenburgWestern Pomerania and Saxony-Anhalt on a state class lottery of June 30/September 1,
2008 (NKL State Treaty) and the provisions of the State Treaty of the federal states on the
Joint Class Lottery of December 15, 2011 (GKL State Treaty) are inconsistent with the
provisions of this State Treaty, the provisions of the NKL State Treaty shall apply.June/1
September 2008 (NKL State Treaty) and the provisions of the State Treaty of the Federal
States on the Joint Class Lottery of December 15, 2011 (GKL State Treaty) conflict with
provisions of this State Treaty, the provisions of this State Treaty shall take precedence.

§ 32 Evaluation
The effects of this Interstate Treaty, in particular of § 4 (4) and (5), §§ 4a to 4d, 6a to 6j, 9,
9a, 21, 22a, 22b and 22c on the development and spread of unlicensed gambling in black
markets, shall be evaluated by the gambling supervisory authorities of the Länder with the
cooperation of the Joint Gambling Authority of the Länder and the Expert Advisory Council.
An interim report is to be submitted by December 31, 2023. A summary report is to be
submitted by December 31, 2026, and every five years thereafter.

§ 33 Appeal to the Federal Administrative Court
In judicial proceedings, an appeal to the Federal Administrative Court may also be based on
the fact that the contested judgment is based on a violation of the provisions of this treaty.

§ 34 Linguistic equality
Insofar as personal and functional designations in this Interstate Treaty are designated in the
masculine form, this form refers to all genders.

73

§ Section 35 Entry into force, termination, new announcement
(1) This Interstate Treaty shall enter into force on July 1, 2021. If at least 13 instruments of
ratification have not been deposited with the State Chancellery of the Chairperson of the
Conference of Ministers-Presidents by April 30, 2021, the Interstate Treaty shall cease to be
valid. The Interstate Treaty shall also become obsolete if the ratification instrument of the
State of Saxony-Anhalt has not been deposited with the State Chancellery of the Chairperson
of the Conference of Ministers-Presidents by June 30, 2021.
(2) The State Chancellery of the President of the Minister Presidents' Conference shall notify
the Länder of the deposit of the instruments of ratification.
(3) Accession to this Interstate Treaty shall be effected by written declaration of accession to
the State Chancellery of the respective chairperson of the Conference of Minister-Presidents
and, insofar as the consent of the legislative body of the acceding Land is required, with its
consent. The State Chancellery of the respective chairperson of the Conference of MinisterPresidents shall inform the other contracting Länder of the receipt of the declaration of
accession. The provisions of this Interstate Treaty shall enter into force for the acceding Land
on the day following receipt of the declaration of accession by the State Chancellery of the
respective chairperson of the Conference of Minister-Presidents. Insofar as the consent of
the legislative body of the acceding Land is required, the provisions shall enter into force for
the acceding Land on the day following receipt of notification of such consent by the State
Chancellery of the respective chairperson of the Conference of Ministers-Presidents. The
accession is also possible after a notice of termination.
(4) This Interstate Treaty is concluded for an indefinite period. It may be terminated by any of
the Länder with one year's notice to the end of a calendar year, but for the first time as of
December 31, 2028. Notice of termination shall be given in writing to the Chairperson of the
Minister Presidents' Conference. He or she shall immediately notify the other contracting
states of the declaration of termination. If the termination is effected by the Contracting
Country which provides the Chairperson of the Conference of Prime Ministers or if this
country is not a Contracting State, the termination shall be declared in writing to all other
Contracting Countries; the period of notice shall be deemed to have been observed if the
declaration of termination has been made before the expiry of the period of notice and has
been received by at least one Contracting Country.
(5) In the event of termination, this Interstate Treaty shall continue to exist between the other
Contracting Countries, subject to paragraph 8, but each of the other Contracting Countries
may terminate the contractual relationship within a period of three months after receipt of the
notification pursuant to paragraph 4, sentence 4, or after receipt of the notice of termination
pursuant to paragraph 4, sentence 5, at the same time.
74

(6) In the event of termination, the Joint Gaming Authority of the Federal States shall exist
pursuant to
§ Section 27a shall continue under the auspices of the remaining contracting states. In the
event of termination by the home state of the Joint State Gaming Authority, Section 27l shall
apply from the time the termination takes effect, provided that the supreme state authority
responsible for gaming supervision in the home state shall be replaced by the supreme state
authority responsible for gaming supervision in the state which at that time provides the
chairperson of the Conference of Minister Presidents or, if this state is not a party to the
Agreement, by the state which from that time provides the chairperson of the Administrative
Board of the Joint State Gaming Authority. As of the effective date of a termination of the
seat state, publications pursuant to Section 27b sentence 2 shall be announced in all states.
In all other respects, the law of the country in which the seat of the authority is located shall
continue to apply until other provisions of the interstate treaty are adopted.
(7) In the event of termination, the federal states undertake to conclude a settlement
agreement on the withdrawal from the Joint Gambling Authority of the federal states by
September 30 of the year at the end of which the termination is to take effect.
(8) If fewer than 13 states were to remain after termination, this Interstate Treaty shall cease
to have effect upon such termination taking effect. Upon the expiry of this Interstate Treaty,
the Joint Gaming Authority of the Länder shall be wound up with the aim of dissolution.
Paragraph 7 shall apply accordingly. The dissolution agreement shall include, in particular,
provisions on the distribution of the assets of the Establishment, the assumption of costs until
dissolution and existing liabilities, as well as the handling of the staff.
(9) Paragraph 8 shall apply mutatis mutandis in the event that the Joint Gaming Authority of
the Federal States is otherwise dissolved.

75

For the state of Baden-Württemberg
Stuttgart

, the 28.10.2020

Winfried
Kretschma
nn

, the 27.10.2020

Markus Söder

, the 27.10.2020

Michael miller

For the state of Bavaria
Munich

For the state of Berlin
Berlin

For the state of Brandenburg
Potsdam

, 28.10.2020

Dietmar Woidke

For the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen
Bremen

, 29.10.2020

Andreas Bovenschulte

For the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg
Hamburg

, the 27.10.2020

Peter Tschentscher

, the 23.10.2020

Volker Bouffier

For the State of Hesse
Wiesbaden

For the State of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
Schwerin

, 23.10.2020

Manuela Schwesig

76

For the State of Lower Saxony
Hanover

, 26.10.2020

Stephan Weil

For the State of North Rhine-Westphalia
Düsseldorf

, 23.10.2020

Armin Laschet

For the state of RhinelandPalatinate
Mainz

, the

27.10.2020

Malu Dreyer

29.10.2020

Tobias Hans

27.10.2020

Michael Kretschmer

For the Saarland
Saarbrücken

, the

For the Free State of Saxony
Dresden

, the

For the State of Saxony-Anhalt
Magdeburg

, 29.10.2020

Reiner Haseloff

For the State of Schleswig-Holstein
Kiel

, the 28.10.2020

Daniel Günther

, the 28.10.2020

Bodo Ramelow

For the State of Thuringia
Erfurt

77

